-------------------Senegal gets Africa's first NBA training center





Lagos (CNN) The National Basketball Association (NBA) on Monday commissioned a new training center in Saly, Senegal, the first of its kind in Africa, as part of its drive to attract young teenagers to the league.

The new facility, which features two indoor basketball courts, a multidimensional activity center, a weight room, conference rooms as well as dormitories and educational facilities, will be the primary training location for NBA Academy Africa future hopefuls from across the continent, the league said in a statement.

"We are thrilled to open this new world-class venue in Saly for NBA Academy Africa prospects," said Amadou Gallo Fall, vice president and managing director of NBA Africa.

"This facility will provide aspiring players from across the continent with state-of-the-art courts and training equipment, under the tutelage of our NBA coaches and our world-class academic staff," he said.

The NBA Academy Africa is operated in partnership with the SEED Project (Sports for Education and Economic Development), a Senegalese non-profit organization that uses basketball as a platform to engage youth in academic, athletic and leadership programs.

Read More

Youngsters at the center will hope to follow in the footsteps of Senegalese native Gorgui Dieng, who is an alumnus of the SEED Project, and went on to land a mammoth $64 million deal with the Minnesota Timberwolves in 2016. The launch is part of the NBA's global push to educate talented youngsters, aged 14-20, with facilities opened in Australia, China, India, Mexico since October 2016.-------------------Police arrest 6 after a teenage boy died in an adulthood initiation ritual in Kenya





Nairobi, Kenya (CNN) Six people have been arrested after a teenage boy died in an adulthood initiation ritual that went wrong in Kenya.

Juliano Kanyonyo, 15, died Wednesday morning after being sent to a camp to join other teenage boys in a traditional ceremony designed to teach him the customary values of his people.

Days after returning from the trip and recovering from a circumcision that is part of the ritual, Kanyonyo was found dead by his sister at their home in Kandara, central Kenya.

"I went to serve him tea, we are not allowed in that house as females but he would pick it from outside but that morning he did not wake up, his sister Lucy Njoki told CNN.

"I left until mother came and we peeped to see him lying on the floor with foam on his mouth," Njoki said.

Read More

Massive 5,000-year-old burial monument unearthed in Kenya Area police commander Wilson Kosgei called the teenager's case "extreme" and said he went through a "serious assault." Kosgei told CNN: "Usually in the Kikuyu tradition, we are told bullying does take place to harden the boys, but this case is extreme, as the postmortem results showed that this boy went through a serious assault, he could have been hit on the head with an iron or something like that." "It is very sad and we are doing everything we can to bring to justice the people involved. So far we have arrested, the mentor and six other boys, we are treating them as suspects," Kosgei added. The commander told CNN the suspects will be arraigned in court this week. CNN has been unable to reach them for comment. In many Kenyan communities, once a boy hits puberty he is initiated into manhood through circumcision. Families send their sons to the initiation ceremonies during the school holidays where boys are circumcised and trained to be men. The boys, usually aged between 13 and 15 go through harsh treatment to prove their manhood, including being beaten by others to show their pain threshold and endurance. Follow CNN Africa on social media Read the latest news from Africa and share your thoughts with us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram Kosgei added that the police work closely with community leaders and said he is not aware of any other cases where a boy has died during an initiation ceremony. Kanyonyo belongs to the Kikuyu, Kenya's most populous ethnic group. According to Kikuyu tradition, the first phase for a man is birth, followed by initiation, marriage, then death. A typical initiation process lasts around 14 days and women are not allowed to be present or have sight of the area where the ritual is held. His family told CNN that he had just received his national examinations results which would allow him to attend the high school of his choice. "He wanted to go to Mangu national school and become a neurosurgeon, his dream has been cut short now," said Njoki.-------------------At least 35 people are dead and dozens are missing after a boat accident in Uganda





(CNN) At least 35 people died in a boat accident on Lake Victoria in Uganda on Saturday, according to the Ugandan Police Force.

Police said the boat was "in poor mechanical shape" and was overloaded with passengers on a lake cruise when it capsized.

A marine unit has rescued 26 people, and searches are ongoing to find more passengers. More than 50 people are unaccounted for, said Army Lt. Col. Deo Akiiki Asimwe.

Authorities said they expect the death toll to rise.

Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni offered condolences to the victims, adding that "according to preliminary information from the security services" the boat was "private, unregistered, unlicensed and maybe uninsured."

Read More

Somalia's President also tweeted about the incident, saying the people of Somalia "stand by Uganda [in] this trying moment of grief." Ugandan police spokesman Patrick Onyango said there was bad weather at the time of the accident.-------------------US Embassy in DRC warns of "possible terrorist threat" against US facilities





(CNN) The US Embassy in the Democratic Republic of Congo's capital said Saturday it has received "credible and specific information of a possible terrorist threat" against US facilities in Kinshasa.

"US citizens in Kinshasa and throughout the DRC are strongly encouraged to maintain a heightened level of vigilance and practice good situational awareness," said the embassy. "Keep a low profile and notify friends and family of your safety."

The embassy will be closed to the public Monday because of the threat.

The embassy also warned of potential unrest in the weeks leading up to the December 23 election, saying it "could occur on short notice."

Challenging vote

Read More

The vote could bring the DRC's first democratic transfer of power. But many fear it also could spark further tensions in a country ravaged by violence for years. Photos: The victims of violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo People displaced from their villages rummage through the ashes of their burnt homes in the North Kivu province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in February 2016. Around 20 people were killed and 40 wounded in one weekend's violence, the spokesperson for the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, Cecile Pouilly, said in a statement Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: The victims of violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo A burnt hut in a village in the North Kivu province which was destroyed in an attack in February 2016. Around 70 houses burned down in the Lubero and Walikale territories, Pouilly said. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: The victims of violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo An injured child receives medical care at a hospital in the North Kivu province in February 2016. He was among the survivors of attacks in which around 15 people of the Nande ethnic minority were killed by men armed with knives in the Miriki area of Lubero, on January 6 and 7, 2016. Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: The victims of violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo People displaced from their villages walk along a road in search of safety after the unrest in February, 2016 in the North Kivu province in eastern DRC. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: The victims of violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo The violence is not new. Pictured, a burial procession for one of the victims of an attack on civilians near Beni, a large town in the North Kivu province, in April, 2015. Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: The victims of violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo A burial ceremony for the victims of an attack on civilians near Beni, in April, 2015. Hide Caption 6 of 6 President Joseph Kabila announced in August that he won't seek a third term, following speculating that he would bypass the country's two-term limit. His second term ended in 2016 but he refused to step down and tried to change the Constitution. Deadly protests ensued. Democratic Republic of Congo's President Joseph Kabila Kabila has ruled since his father's assassination in 2001. He nominated his Interior Minister Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary as his successor. Shadary's main challengers from the fractured opposition are businessman Martin Fayulu of the Lakuma coalition and the well-known leader of the Union for Democracy and Social Progress, Felix Tshisekedi. Violence threatens Ebola response Deadly violence has hampered efforts to stamp an Ebola outbreak scourging the country's northeast, posing additional challenges to the already dire humanitarian situation. Health workers operate within an Ebola safety zone in the Health Center in Iyonda, near Mbandaka, DRC in June. At least 231 people have died from the deadly virus in the country's heavily populated northern region, which borders Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan, according to DRC's Ministry of Health . More than 350 cases have been confirmed in North Kivu province, where the epicenter is, and neighboring Ituri province. Fighting between militant groups and government forces has made it difficult for health workers to access some of the hardest-hit areas. Earlier this month an armed group attacked UN peacekeepers in the city of Beni, in North Kivu province. Earlier in the week, at least seven peacekeepers were killed and 10 others were wounded in clashes with militias. The World Health Organization has warned that the movement of more than 1 million people through the provinces could further spread the deadly virus.-------------------Nigeria's Davido named Artist of the Year at 2018 AFRIMA awards





Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) Nigerian pop star Davido has been named Artist of the Year at this year's AFRIMA awards.

Davido led other Nigerian musicians to clinch significant categories at the awards held at the weekend at the Accra International Conference Centre in Ghana's capital city.

Nigeria's Wizkid won the category last year.

The singer, real name David Adeleke, and Nigerian popstar Tiwa Savage, won the Best Male and Female Artist in Western Africa respectively.

Nigerian rapper Falz took home the trophy for the Best African Rapper/Lyricist.

Read More

His song, 'This is Nigeria', a cover version of Childish Gambino's viral video, 'This is America' caused a storm online when it was released this year, including a reaction from hip-hop musician Diddy. Ethiopian singer Betty G won the highly coveted Album of the Year for "Wegegta." She was also rated Best Female Artist in Eastern Africa. Meet the 10-year-old DJ from Ghana who wowed world leaders Nigeria's Afrobeat musician 2Baba and singer Peruzzi won the award for Best African Pop Duo. AFRIMA, organized annually in collaboration with the African Union, seeks to bring African music to a global audience by propelling the continent's music across many borders, according to its organizers.-------------------South Sudanese man responds to international backlash to his marriage





(CNN) The South Sudanese man at the center of a row over his recent wedding says the marriage process conformed to the traditions of his country and denies that an "auction" for the bride took place, as was alleged by a UK-based child advocacy organization.

In a telephone interview with CNN from Juba, the capital of South Sudan, Ruben Kok Alat refused to confirm the age of the bride -- reported to be 16 or 17 -- but said it was a "marriage like any other."

The family of the bride reportedly received 500 cows, three cars and $10,000 from the groom at the time of the marriage. South Sudanese human rights lawyer Phillips Ngong told CNN the assets were proposed in the context of an auction that took place in person, and the dowry amount pledged was higher than usual, which prompted a discussion on Facebook.

Speaking to CNN, Kok Alat did not discuss the dowry size and said media commentary about the terms of the marriage being decided through an "auction" was "fake."

"I'm personally disappointed, and many people who know how our tradition works are most disappointed," he said. "There is no human that can auction another human. South Sudan is a country with a high level of human rights."

Read More

Kok Alat says what took place was part of the culture of the Dinka people, the largest ethnic group in South Sudan "This is just a marriage like any other marriage. I don't know why it has become more special than the other traditional marriages, which are done before and which are going to be done again," he said. Concern over social media The practice of dowry negotiations is traditional in Dinka culture and in much of East Africa and beyond. According to children's rights organization Plan International, the bride was "married off to the winning bidder" at a November 3 ceremony in the country's Eastern Lake Section. Five men, some of whom were reportedly high-ranking South Sudanese government officials, participated in the "auction," Plan International said. Plan International said it originally became aware of the marriage via the Voice of America but subsequently confirmed the details through its local staff. Activists said they are concerned this practice could inspire other families to use social media sites to receive larger payments. "In South Sudan, Facebook and social media is a brand new thing. Someone just took a picture. And it just went viral," human rights lawyer Ngong said. The wedding occurred November 3, according to Suzy Natana of the South Sudanese National Alliance for Women Lawyers, citing locals the association spoke with. Facebook came under fire for posts that discussed the price being offered for the bride by the highest bidder, as well as how much Facebook users would offer for her. Though Facebook said one post was taken down on November 9, posts discussing the dowry were still live on Friday, November 23. Facebook said in a statement to CNN that any form of "human trafficking -- whether posts, pages, ads or groups is not allowed on Facebook." "We removed the post and permanently disabled the account belonging to the person who posted this to Facebook," a company spokesperson said in a statement. The man who won the bidding for the teenager, businessman Kok Alat, did not find out about the girl through Facebook, Ngong said. But the marriage of the girl is still egregious, Ngong said, particularly as a state government official is believed to be among the bidders. Ngong said it was a direct violation of child marriage laws by those in power: "Anything that happens that is not in the best interest of the child is a violation. And the constitution and child laws are very clear on that." South Sudan's Constitution states that marriage requires the "free and full consent" of those intending to marry. A child is defined as anyone under the age of 18, according to the country's Child Act, 2008, which adds that "every child has the right to be protected from early marriage."-------------------Oby Ezekwesili: Bring Back our Girls activist vows to disrupt 'Nigeria's politics of failure'





Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) Bring Back our Girls activist and former Nigerian minister Oby Ezekwesili has thrown her hat into the election ring for Nigeria's upcoming 2019 elections and says her candidacy will "disrupt the politics of failure" in Africa's most populous nation.

Ezekwesili in an interview with Christiane Amanpour said bad governance had become endemic in Nigeria and citizens no longer hold leaders accountable for corruption or corrupt acts.

"It [Nigerian politics] produced dismal results such that today Nigeria is the world's capital of extreme poverty," she said.

"It's totally unacceptable. What I intend to do is to disrupt this and build a nation that is based on prosperity, stability, cohesion, and equality of opportunities for our people."

Around 87 million Nigerians are living in extreme poverty, according to the 2018 World Poverty Clock , despite the country's vast oil wealth and human capital.

Incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari, who is also running for a second term , vowed to tackle corruption in his first term, a promise many Nigerians say he has not fulfilled.

Former Nigerian Education Minister and Vice-President of the World Bank's Africa division Obiageli Ezekwesilieze speaks during a march for the kidnapped Chibok girls.

Ezekwesili, who announced she was running for Nigeria's top office in October, is towing the same path, with a campaign promise to weed out corruption, which she calls a "malignant and cancerous action."

"We know that corruption is a tax on the poor. And we already know there are ways to tackle corruption. You prevent opportunities for corruption; you reduce corruption.

"What my agenda is to deregulate the economy in the kind of way that public officials don't have too much presence in the economy to be able to utilize it for personal gain," she said in the interview.

Anti-corruption campaigner

Ezekwesili is one of the co-founders of Transparency International, a global watchdog fighting corruption. She has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.

She leads the Bring Back Our Girls group calling for the safe return of kidnapped Nigerian schoolgirls kidnapped by terror group Boko Haram since 2014.

Ezekwesili faces an uphill task as a female presidential candidate, but most significantly, she will be running against incumbent President Buhari and Nigeria's former vice-president Atiku Abubakar in February next year.

The activist said the candidates' popularity does not faze her and her ambitions to lead the West African nation.

Ezekwesili believes she stands out from other candidates.

According to her, leadership is "gender neutral" and she brings "character, competence, and capacity" to the race, she said.

"I am a better candidate than the men that are in this race, and even they will tell you that. I'm simply going to keep on with the issues that I want to solve and be a problem solver," Ezekwesili told CNN.

Her record of fighting corruption and plugging financial leaks in Nigeria's public sector, when she served as a minister proves she will deliver on her campaign promises, she said.

"I believe I am the candidate of the Nigerian people as I am not running alone. We are all running together. All of us that want a new direction for our country are running together," Ezekwesili said.

"This is a contest between the established class of politicians who have not delivered anything meaningful in governance and the rest of us. I'm simply a candidate who is providing a direction for the rest of society to take on these folks."

Ezekwesili served as Nigeria's minister of education in 2006 where she championed educational reforms to get more girls to attend school, especially in northern Nigeria.-------------------Donald Trump 'ill-informed' about land issue, says South African President





Johannesburg, South Africa (CNN) In an exclusive interview with CNN, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa criticized Donald Trump's views on South Africa's land debate and blamed -- in part -- "fringe groups" lobbying in the US.

"They are finding people who get some resonance with what they are saying, and these people are ill-informed about what is happening here. Just as President Trump was ill-informed about the messages that they are beaming out," said Ramaphosa.

Ramaphosa's comments come as CNN released an investigation proving ties between US and South African far-right groups and a growing belief in the myth of a white genocide of South African farmers.

CNN's investigation shows that those ideas have gained resonance far beyond ultra-right groups and have spread into the mainstream.

"Those people overseas that are taken in by this message of whites in South Africa being under threat, they are looking at South Africa through the lens of black versus white. And South Africa has long moved away from that," said Ramaphosa.

"In the main, most of them are racists. And they are not very positively disposed toward black people. Their voice, a seemingly prominent voice, is because they are talking on race issues and saying there is a racial war. There is no racial war in South Africa. White South Africans are working with us to resolve this issue," he said.

Some of these groups say that they are just fighting for the rights of minority populations -- in this case White South Africans.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, a group that tracks white supremacists, says that Trump helped legitimize the conspiracy theories.

In late August, after apparently watching a segment on Fox News, Trump tweeted a request for Secretary of State Steve Pompeo to "closely study the South African land farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers."

In response to queries by CNN, the US State Department didn't detail what "close study" has occurred but said Pompeo had raised the issue with his counterpart in late September.

"Expropriation of land without compensation risks sending South Africa down the wrong path. That remains the US position," said Carrie Schneider, the acting spokesperson of the US Embassy in Pretoria.

"President Ramaphosa has indicated that land reform would be undertaken without damaging the economy.

"While South Africa has the sovereign right to amend its constitution, we believe its decisions should be consistent with the rule of law and preserve the investment climate."

The African National Congress-led government is pushing forward with the controversial move by amending the constitution.

For decades under apartheid, and for centuries under colonial rule, non-whites in South Africa were forced off the majority of viable land in South Africa. With democracy, land redistribution was a major policy priority of the ANC-led government.

Still, more than 20 years on, most land is owned by whites.

Ramaphosa admitted the government's goals of land redistribution since the era of Nelson Mandela have been harmed by fraud, corruption and a lack of capacity, but maintains that things will be different during his Presidency.

South Africa's President was the lead negotiator for the ANC in the transition to democracy -- in the land question, he faces, arguably, an even more complex challenge.

Agricultural unions, opposition groups and many commercial farmers say that the expropriation without compensation is unnecessary and risks hurting agricultural production and a fragile economy.

Ramaphosa tried to allay investor fears, saying that land reform could unlock economic potential and pull people out of poverty. He said government land and land lying fallow would be the first to be targeted in an accelerated reform plan.

Ramaphosa has become one of South Africa's richest men by building up a formidable portfolio and taking advantage of his connections with business and the ruling party.

Still, he put the land issue in stark, personal terms.

"The impact of apartheid on black families was devastating. In my own family it happened twice, where land was taken, we were moved from where my parents had grown up owning land, working the land, they were moved and dropped into an arid place with no compensation whatsoever," he said. "As it is now, the poverty that we have in South Africa, in part, has been given rise to by people not having assets."

Asked if he feared failing in his mission, the former trade union negotiator was firm about his prospects.

"A lot is at stake. You could even say the stability of the country is at stake. And I am not fond of failing at anything."-------------------Nearly 80 rescued migrants forced off cargo ship in Libya





(CNN) Nearly 80 rescued migrants have been forced off a cargo ship after it docked at a Libya port following an eleven-day standoff.

The standoff began on November 10, when dozens of migrants and refugees, who tried to reach Italy on a rubber boat, were rescued and returned to Libya by the Nivin, a cargo ship with a Panamanian flag.

Many refused to leave the ship after it docked at the Libyan port city of Misrata.

Some of them told CNN they would rather die than go back to Libya where they said they had been tortured. They want to be taken to a safe country.

Three teenagers on board told CNN they had experienced too much abuse and violence in Libya, and were too scared to go back.

In a video taken on the cargo ship and sent to CNN, Tuha, a 16-year-old Eritrean, said he had been in Libya since 2016.

"They sold me three times. They punished me. Even I had my brother die in my hands, in Bani Walid. I saw so many things.

"How I can go down?" he continued. "If I go down from this boat they will kill me. They can do anything, but I will not go down... This is my decision," Tuha said in the video.

Journey in the Mediterranean

The group of 95 refugees and migrants set out for Italy on a rubber boat on November 6.

Two teenagers told CNN they had traveled nearly 200 kilometers across the Mediterranean before they came across the Nivin.

The ship's crew promised to take them to a safe country in Europe, but brought them back to Libya instead.

According to them, they could already see the coast of Malta and were out of Libyan waters before they were returned the port in Libya.

After they arrived in Misrata, the Libyan authorities repeatedly tried to get the rescued migrants to leave the ship, they said.

Humanitarian organizations were kept away from the area as armed Libyans moved in.

The last photo sent to CNN, by a teenager on board the ship, appears to show a man carrying a gun while standing on the port.

One teenager told CNN by phone that Libyan authorities threatened to burn the cargo ship down after they refused to leave.

"We don't want to go outside until we die here," Kai Dar, a South Sudanese 18-year-old, told CNN by phone.

On Tuesday, after the migrants and refugees were reportedly forced off the ship, a man who identified himself as a member of the Libyan coastguard answered one of the phones the teenagers had been using to communicate.

"Everything is ok," he said, though he refused to answer questions about the conditions the rescued migrants were in, or where they had been taken.

"I will chuck this phone. For now, I can't tell you any more."

The man gave another number for CNN to call him on later, but those calls went unanswered.

Libya's Department for Combatting Illegal Migration (DCIM) did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

Last week, a small group on the Nivin agreed to leave, including a mother and infant child.

Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said there were 28 minors on board the ship, and that there were 77 people in total.

"For sure there are children on board, and as far as we know the authorities are trying to find a solution for the current situation," said Unicef Libya spokesperson Mostafa Omar, speaking on Monday.

Dar told CNN, some of the officials, who visited the Nivin Monday afternoon threatened to put them in prison in Malta if they refused to leave the ship.

In a statement released last week, human rights organization Amnesty International said Libyan, European and Panamanian authorities should ensure that those on board weren't forcibly taken to a Libyan detention center "where they could face torture and other abuse."

"It is high time the Libyan authorities put an end to the ruthless policy of unlawfully detaining refugees and migrants. No one should be sent back to Libya to be held in inhumane conditions and face torture and other ill-treatment," said Heba Morayef, Amnesty's Middle East and North Africa Director.

Dar told CNN that several people on board were already injured, after being burnt by oil from the rubber boat, they had initially traveled in.

He said they were forced to urinate in bottles, because there was no bathroom on the Nivin, though they were grateful international organizations had been delivering food and water to the ship.

"We're so tired, so tired," Dar said.-------------------'Rambo' CAR militia leader charged with war crimes





(CNN) A Central African Republic (CAR) militia leader widely known as "Rambo" has been charged with a number of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including murder, torture and the use of child soldiers, at the International Criminal Court in The Hague.

Alfred Yekatom is the former commander of a group of 3,000 members of the anti-balaka movement, a group consisting mainly of Christians that opposed a largely Muslim rebel alliance known as Seleka, the ICC said.

His crimes allegedly took place "in various locations within the Central African Republic, including the capital Bangui and Lobaye prefecture," the court said.

The anti-balaka coalition, which translates to "anti-machete," was formed after Seleka ousted President François Bozizé and replaced him with the country's first Muslim President.

The coalition has repeatedly clashed with Seleka groups and led frequent massacres against Muslim populations in the country over the course of its ruinous civil war, according to Amnesty International

Read More

Appearing in court to be informed of the charges leveled against him, Yekatom -- who is also a member of Parliament -- claimed that upon his arrest he was held in presidential detention for a month and was tortured and beaten with the butts of Kalashnikov rifles. He was originally arrested by local authorities in late October, and was handed over to a tribunal in The Hague on November 17. Yekatom appears before the ICC in The Hague, Netherlands, on Friday. The court accused Yekatom of crimes against humanity, including murder, imprisonment, torture and enforced disappearance. Mutilation, intentional attacks against the civilian population and the use of soldiers under the age of 15 are among the war crimes of which he is accused. A Human Rights Watch report last year said that armed anti-balaka groups in the CAR "have used rape and sexual slavery as a tactic of war across the country during nearly five years of conflict." Yekatom will next appear in court in April, when evidence will be examined and discussed.-------------------Welcome to the action packed world of 'Wakaliwood'





(CNN) In the heart of a Ugandan slum, there exists a world of zombies, cannibals, and kung fu.

It's a place where a slum cat called "Famous" lounges in the sun while laundry dries on the skeleton of a helicopter painted with the bold letters "Wakaliwood."

This world belongs to a man named Isaac Nabwana. Isaac is the founder and director of Ramon Pictures, an action genre film studio home grown in the Wakaliga slum known these days as "Wakaliwood."

Welcome to the action packed world of 'Wakaliwood'

Welcome to the action packed world of 'Wakaliwood' 22:56

Welcome to the action packed world of 'Wakaliwood'

An echo of Nigeria's "Nollywood", India's "Bollywood", and of course "Hollywood", Isaac says that he chose the name because it was the place where he grew up and the place where the first action movie in Uganda was made.

Isaac grew up with a love for action film stars that he learned from his brother Robert. In the 1980's, Robert would sneak out to the newly opened cinema halls to watch movies, coming back later to reenact every action-packed moment.

Isaac says looking back, "Why I wanted to start action movies is because when I was growing up, all film stars I knew were all action stars... I knew of Rambo, Schwarzenegger, Jet Li, there's Bruce Lee, Wang Yu. My favorite is Chuck Norris."

This love for action and nostalgia for its early stars features heavily in Isaac's films, one of his most successful is titled "Bruce U", about a Ugandan man who perfects the art of kung fu.

Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood Self-taught director Isaac Nabwaana directing children and adults in a cannibal movie. Nabwaana started Ramon Film Productions in 2005 and has since made over 40 low-budget action movies. Hide Caption 1 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood American Alan Hofmanis plays the victim of a cannibal attack. Hofmanis saw the trailer for one of Nabwaana's films and left his life in the United States to join the Ugandan production company. Hide Caption 2 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood Nabwaana and his crew get creative when building props. These Rambo-style bullets are built from carved wood. Each film costs approximately $200 to make. 'We try and build everything here,' says Nabwaana. Hide Caption 3 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood The green screen is a piece of cloth, draped over a wall. The camera crane is made from spare tractor parts by local mechanic Dauda Bissaso. Hide Caption 4 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood Free condoms, sourced from the local health clinic, are used as props to dispense blood. Hide Caption 5 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood Though many local actresses star in Nabwaana's films, he says it can be tricky to cast them. 'There are so many problems getting women in films," he says . "The culture doesn't allow them to be in films -- their husbands are worried.' Hide Caption 6 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood One actor with a bloody wound starts off the day with breakfast. Hide Caption 7 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood That's not a typo. The sign says 'Bolice' on purpose. 'It was called "Police" until villagers started coming to Wakaliwood with their problems,' explains Hofmanis. Hide Caption 8 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood Nabwaana with his wife, Harriet and their three children, stand in front of the makeshift green screen. 'Uganda's motto is: For God and country, and we try and do everything at Wakaliwood for God and country,' says the filmmaker. Hide Caption 9 of 10 Photos: Behind the scenes at Wakaliwood Poster for the 2010 film Who Killed Captain Alex? The movie's trailer has had more the 2 million views on YouTube. Hide Caption 10 of 10

Though Isaac had decided very early on that he wanted to make movies, his family was not convinced. His grandmother who raised him, his sisters and brothers expressed doubt that it was possible.

Isaac remembers telling his brother Robert of his dreams. "I told him that one day I'll make a movie, he said, "No, you cannot make it. Because movies, you made [need] millions of dollars to make movies."

Yet defying all odds, Isaac has made over forty movies, with three more in the works. Robert, his brother, plays multiple roles in every Ramon production, as well as Isaac's wife, Harriet, and his children.

The Wakaliwood community has grown from Isaac's immediate family to a large and diverse group.

People come from all over the country, and the world to see what Isaac has created and to take part in projects. One fan came all the way from New York City and never left Wakaliwood.

New York film buff Alan Hofmanis appeared on Isaac's doorstep six years ago after seeing a YouTube trailer for "Who Killed Captain Alex?", Isaac's first successful action film which was made for under $200.

Sometimes Wakaliwood actors get into character to gain some extra attention while selling the films.

Alan recalled watching the trailer with some friends in a crowded East Village bar and having a distinctly different response from those around him. He remembers, "everyone's laughing and I wasn't laughing. Like yea it's funny, yea I think it's great, but who are these people? To me it just looked like genius."

That instinct led Alan straight to Wakaliwood, and he's never looked back. "I saw the thing, I bought the ticket, I went there, and I said hello, my name is Alan, I'm a fan from New York City and I'm here to talk, and that was it and we spoke for about six hours," he says, "And that's how it started."

Today, Alan lives in a room attached to Isaac's house in Wakaliga. He is an integral part of the team. He wears many hats as co-producer, distributor, and even an actor. Alan plays three characters in Isaac's upcoming movie "Eaten Alive," a zombie thriller that is one of several movies that Isaac is at work on.

Director Isaac Nabwaana and Alan Hofmanis

In it, Alan, thinner with longer hair, has a likeness to Chuck Norris. In these scenes, Alan is hunted and eaten by cannibals because Isaac has decided, "Chuck Norris is probably delicious".

In scenes being filmed, Alan portrays Norris' brother who is seeking to avenge Chuck Norris.

Isaac says his ideas spring from the real-life stories and scenes around him. For "Eaten Alive", Isaac based the film on a news story about an alleged cannibal killing that took place in a central Uganda region called Rakai.

His imagination is brought to life by a multi-talented man named Dauda. Dauda transforms Isaac's backyard into a new scene every night.

Dauda is the props master, set designer, electrician, mechanic, and sometimes even an actor. He has crafted every single one of the props on their sets, and is solely responsible for translating into reality Isaac's creative vision.

Isaac's wife Harriet is a self-taught makeup artist, having learned a variety of techniques from watching YouTube videos. Harriet uses a multitude of household items to get the effect she desires, including toilet paper, office glue, and latex, if she can find some. Harriet prefers zombie makeup to beauty makeup.

"Everything is fun doing makeup.", she says, "Everybody is fun, because everyday I find new things while doing makeup and it adds on my profession."

A hallmark of the Wakaliwood lifestyle is inclusion. Nabwana has made it a goal to welcome everyone from interested fans, the curious, and anyone interested in film, no matter where they're from.

"One thing we don't do is we don't discriminate against tribe or what. Whoever comes, what tribe, whatever tribe you are from, I give you ... Whatever region, I give you a chance.

Because for me I believe art is art and it's a God-given thing. The reason why you came to me, maybe it is because God sent you to me and I will lift your talent. It's an effort. For me, I believe, I don't chase anyone.

That's why you see we have people from Northern Uganda, we have people from Western Uganda, from Eastern Uganda, Central. So we bring together everyone."

Condoms are used as props to dispense blood

Some of the most passionate about movie making are the children living in Wakaliwood. These include Isaac's children, both biological and adopted. The children are called "Waka Stars" and participate in all activities that the adults are involved in. They are musicians, they do martial arts, and they act in movies.

According to Isaac, the children are treated like adults so that they learn to act like adults. He says, "when we are shooting, they know, they can even control themselves. We don't chase them because we feel like these children one day will be directors, will be actors."

These children are the true mark of Isaac's legacy and will carry on the future of the brand. In Alan's words, "I don't know what the legacy of this will be, because even if it stops, it can't stop. If he dies, there's a whole back catalog. It's not over. There's all the village and the kids."

As for Isaac, he believes the youth are essential to confirming a future for everything he has built. "If we now try to involve the youth they will grow up... knowing that Uganda can make movies," he says, "and then the industry will stay. So the youth are very vital in this."

But whatever lies ahead, it is certain that Isaac has taken his boyhood fantasies of making action movies and made them a reality.

That reality is Wakaliwood.-------------------Bobi Wine: The 'Ghetto President' versus the strongman President





(CNN) In one corner is Bobi Wine, the charismatic and wildly popular musician, affectionately known in Uganda as 'the Ghetto President.'

In the other is the real President of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni, who -- like many of Africa's former revolutionaries -- has clung to power for decades, amid growing calls for him to step down.

Museveni, 73, has ruled the east African nation with an iron fist since he took power in 1986 and is not known to be soft on his opponents; he has seen off many of them in his 32-year rule.

But some commentators are saying that Wine -- with his musical and political clout as well as a solid youth base -- is the real challenger to Museveni's throne.

"Bobi Wine poses a real threat to Museveni, more so in consideration that young Ugandans, many of whom are unemployed, constitute a huge percentage of the active electorate," says Jimmy Spire Ssentongo, an Associate Dean at Uganda Martyrs University.

"Given the widespread public desperation in Uganda, all many people want is a person who shows the potential of removing Museveni. All else is secondary," he said in an interview with The Conversation

Before he was Bobi Wine, the musician was known as Robert Kyagulanyi. He grew up in the slums of Uganda, raised by a single mother, but turned to music as a way out of grinding poverty.

His upbeat dancehall music style and catchy lyrics dominated airwaves and clubs across East Africa from the early 2000s.

Singing frequently in his native Luganda, the songs contained strong messages, often railing against social injustice in the country.

He called on the citizenry to "rise up and raise their voices" to challenge oppression.

"Don't shy away from working for Uganda, because it is your own country, even if your boss was not your choice. Just play your part, because this is your country," he sang in one of his hits, " Situka.

With such politically conscious lyrics, a career in politics was, perhaps, inevitable.

In 2017, he stood for Parliament as an independent, campaigning on the catchphrase : "Since Parliament has failed to come to the ghetto, then we shall bring the ghetto to Parliament."

He was elected by a landslide and has since proved to be a thorn in Museveni's side, pitching his tent with opposition legislators and continuing to make music, mostly critical of the President's long-term rule.

His popularity has not gone unnoticed by the government.

Some of his songs, including "Freedom," have been banned in the country.

"See our leaders become misleaders," Wine sang. "And see our mentors become tormentors. Freedom fighters become dictators. They look upon the youth and say we're destructors."

Bobi Wine, 36, was a toddler when Museveni came to power.

A former defense minister, Museveni had formed a political party that would go on to overthrow the brutal Idi Amin dictatorship in 1979.

Uganda has one of the youngest populations in the world; more than three-quarters of the country's 35.6 million people are below the age of 30.

According to the International Labor Organization , young people form 83% of the unemployed in Uganda.

Many are frustrated and long for opportunities that will lift them out of poverty.

President for life?

Once revered for unseating one of Africa's most brutal leaders, Museveni himself now runs the risk of becoming a dictator.

He has changed the constitution twice to extend his stay in office. In 2005, legislators removed presidential term limits to allow him to stand for elections.

A bill was also passed last year eliminating constitutional limits on anyone serving as president past the age of 75, paving the way for Museveni to become president for life.

When it was debated in Parliament, Wine joined opposition MPs to shut down the law.

He said in a Facebook post that it was time for Museveni to release his firm grip over the nation.

"Ugandans made it clear long ago that they are opposed to a life presidency," he wrote. "They don't want the constitution tampered with in any way."

Arguments during the presidential age limit debate descended into chaos as lawmakers exchanged punches and threw chairs at each other in Parliament.

The amendment also sparked protests among students and activists.

#FreeBobiWine

Wine has used his star power and political office to galvanize Uganda's youth to take action against unpopular policies.

When the President introduced a controversial social media tax earlier this year, Wine led a protest march to Uganda's Parliament to demand a review.

However, he is not without controversy. In 2014, the pop star was forced to cancel a UK tour after he was denied entry into Britain following protests from gay activists who accused him of promoting homophobic lyrics, according to the UK Guardian

He later wrote: "I am personally not out to threaten the life of any individual based on their sexual orientation, I just do not agree with them (homosexuals)," he said. "This is my opinion and happens to be that of 99% of Ugandans," the newspaper reported.

Following his arrest and alleged torture, Wine has gained global prominence and sparked an international protest movement.

The lawmaker was arrested on August 15 alongside opposition MPs after rioting broke out between rival parties ahead of a local parliamentary election.

Wine said on Twitter that his driver was shot dead. Police said Museveni's car was attacked in the aftermath of the violence.

The public has reacted to the recent events with outrage and anger, most of it channeled through social media.

From Tokyo to Washington, activists and fans joined the #FreeBobiWine hashtag online and took to the streets to demand the singer's release.

Activists and civil society groups marched to the Ugandan embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, on August 23 to protest against Wine's detention.

Influential figures in the music industry, including Chris Martin, Angelique Kidjo, Damon Albarn and others, also joined the campaign.

Thousands of Kenyans marched to the country's Parliament and the Ugandan embassy in Nairobi to hand over a petition for the singer's release.

'A brutal regime'

Kampala's Mayor, Erias Lukwago, told CNN Wine's arrest has exposed Museveni's "brutal regime."

"The level of injustice in Uganda is too much; this brutal regime wants to suppress opposing voices. But they must know that Ugandans are angry, and they will no longer tolerate any form of oppression," Lukwago, who is also on Wine's legal team, said.

The singer, now facing treason charges, was taken into military detention following his arrest. He posted a lengthy statement Monday detailing the physical abuse he says he suffered at the hands of the military during and after his arrest last month.

Wine, who is seeking treatment in the United States, claims to have been beaten with an iron bar, punched, kicked, hit with pistol butts and had his ears pulled with "something like pliers."

"After some time, I could almost no longer feel the pain. I could only hear what they were doing from afar. My cries and pleas went unheeded. The things they were speaking to me all this while, I cannot reproduce here. Up to now, I cannot understand how these soldiers who I probably had never met before in person could hate me so much," Wine says in the statement.

Safely arrived in the US where I'll be receiving specialised treatment following the brutal torture at the hands of SFC soldiers. We thank the world for standing with us. I will soon tell you what exactly happened to me since 13th August and what is next. #peoplepower Power pic.twitter.com/0IcA3wUAQd — BOBI WINE (@HEBobiwine) September 1, 2018

Police spokesman Patrick Onyango told CNN the allegations are being investigated.

"There are allegations -- they are alleging that they were tortured by security forces. There is already a case file open to investigating their allegations of torture, so the allegations of torture has also to be proven by medical examinations. I cannot believe what they're saying unless the medical personnel confirm to us that they were indeed tortured. Until the medical team from the government ascertain or confirms to us that they were tortured that's when I can say they were," he said.

Museveni also took to his blog and social media to dismiss the torture allegations as "fake news."

He accused Wine and the arrested MPs of intimidating voters.

"Anybody who is a friend of the young politicians like Bobi Wine should advise them that shortcuts like cheating, importing voters, intimidating the voters of the other side, ballot stuffing... will lead them and Uganda to doom," Museveni said.

Clinging to power

While much of the developed world embraces the energy of youth in leadership positions, it is not often the case in Africa.

From Uganda to Cameroon, many of the continent's leaders are aging and clinging to power while their countries struggle to keep pace with global developments.

Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe was forced to relinquish power in 2017 after 37 years of autocratic rule. The 94-year-old had ruled the country since its independence in 1980.

Cameroon's Paul Biya, 85, has been President since 1982 and plans to stand again for election in October, amid spiraling violence and alleged human rights abuses in the country.

It is no wonder young politicians like Wine attract a strong and loyal following when they go up against these regimes.

But Wine is quick to reject notions that he is a messianic figure who will topple Museveni's long-standing regime.

I have said it before that any party that tells you that it can single handedly liberate Uganda is a jocker. For us to defeat President Museveni, it will take more than one political party, more than one tribe, more than one religion and yes, more than one generation. pic.twitter.com/ipyuZYUGkV — BOBI WINE (@HEBobiwine) August 12, 2018

As he puts it in a recent tweet: "I have said it before that any party that tells you that it can single handedly liberate Uganda is a jocker (sic). For us to defeat President Museveni, it will take more than one political party, more than one tribe, more than one religion and yes, more than one generation."-------------------Meet the 10-year-old DJ from Ghana who wowed world leaders





Story highlights DJ Switch: "Never feel nervous"

She wants to be a gynecologist because "you know women got to support women"

(CNN) Meet DJ Switch: a 10-year-old girl from Ghana who wants to be a gynecologist when she grows up.

Erica Armah Bra-Bulu Tandoh rose to international fame through a mixture of her feisty attitude, online music videos and total cuteness.

"I came up with the name DJ Switch because when I was a kid I was switching up the mood of people. When you're sad I'll make you happy, when you're happy and you want to be more excited, I'll make you excited," she says.

The second child and only girl of Ghanaian parents with five children, she and her family live in Dadieso in the Western region of Ghana.

She learned how to DJ roughly a year ago, in a village bar where the local DJ taught her how to use a laptop. After a couple of days learning the basics of playing on decks, "he's teaching me what he knows and I'm teaching him what he doesn't know," she says.

Read More

In June this year, Erica became the youngest person to win Ghana's annual DJ award and three months later, she has just opened the Bill and Melinda Gates' Foundation's annual Goalkeepers event in New York, as the warmup act to French President Emmanuel Macron. 10-year-old DJ Switch backstage with French President Emmanuel Macron at the Goalkeepers 2018 event in New York. Asked if she felt nervous DJing in front of numerous world leaders, in her first trip outside Ghana, she says, "I never feel nervous playing in front of any capacity of crowd because I'm focused." "I make my mind up that what I'm going to do, I'm going to do with energy and also attitude to make the crowd happy and I make myself confident not to feel nervous, because I don't feel shy. I always take nervous and giving up out of my dictionary." That's her message to other young people around the world. "Never feel nervous. Be focused on whatever you're doing. You don't need to let shyness be in your dictionary." Even at 10, the schoolgirl is a fierce advocate of education. "I love school, I don't want to joke with my books because I have a dream of being a gynecologist." "Education is the key to success" she adds. "I want to be a gynecologist because you know women got to support women. I want to help women deliver and I want to make deliverance so easy." However, she's determined that gynecology won't get in the way of her DJing. "I wanna be a very big DJ and my goal is to combine DJing and a future as a gynecologist. ... Let's say in the future you come to my hospital and you want to deliver and I'll just be playing some music and you'll see your baby dancing while it's coming."-------------------British Museum to return Benin bronzes to Nigeria





London (CNN) More than a century after British soldiers looted a collection of priceless artifacts from the Kingdom of Benin, some of the Benin bronzes are heading back to Nigeria - with strings attached.

A deal was struck last month by the Benin Dialogue Group (BDG) that would see "some of the most iconic pieces" in the historic collection returned on a temporary basis to form an exhibition at the new Benin Royal Museum in Edo State within three years.

More than 1,000 of the bronzes are held at museums across Europe, with the most valuable collection at the British Museum in London.

Nigerian governments have sought their return since the country gained independence in 1960.

Temporary solution

The agreement represents a breakthrough for the BDG, which was formed in 2007 to address restitution claims.

The group comprises of representatives of several European museums, the Royal Court of Benin, Edo State Government, and Nigeria's National Commission for Museums and Monuments.

The returns are contingent on the timely completion of a new Royal Museum, adjacent to the Royal Palace that once housed many of the bronzes. Nigerian officials presented plans for the Museum at a BDG meeting in October. A spokesman for the Governor of Edo said that designs are being finalized in collaboration with the Royal Court of Benin.

A spokesman for the British Museum said European museums would play an active role in developing an elite institution suitable for housing exhibits that are considered to be among the greatest ever African artworks.

"The key agenda item (at the October meeting) was how partners can work together to establish a museum in Benin City with a rotation of Benin works of art from a consortium of European museums," the spokesman said.

"The museums in attendance have all agreed to lend artifacts to the Benin Royal Museum on a rotating basis, to provide advice as requested on building and exhibition design, and to cooperate with the Nigerian partners in developing training, funding, and a legal framework for the display in a new planned museum."

Benin bronzes on display at the British Museum in London. The museum holds one of the world's largest collection of bronzes with around 700 pieces

Details about which pieces will be returned and how many are yet to be established. Dialogue is ongoing between the parties of the BDG, and the group is scheduled to meet again in Benin City next year. The present agreement notes that Nigerian partners have not ceded claims for permanent restitution, and officials remain determined to secure the bronzes on a permanent basis.

"We are grateful these steps are being taken but we hope they are only the first steps," Crusoe Osagie, spokesman for the Governor of Edo, told CNN. "If you have stolen property, you have to give it back."

Osagie called for greater pressure on European governments to return the bronzes.

Breaking the deadlock

Nigerian claims received a boost with the release of a new report commissioned by the French government that calls for wholesale restitution of artifacts seized during the colonial era.

The report from academics Felwine Sarr and Benedicte Savoy, prompted by President Emmanuel Macron's 2017 commitment to return African heritage, recommended that items taken without consent should be liable to restitution claims.

Many of the estimated 90,000 artifacts of sub-Saharan African origin held at French institutions could be contested under the report's criteria.

Sarr and Savoy further recommended that key, symbolic pieces long sought by claimant nations should be immediately returned - including several French-held Benin bronzes.

The report also proposed a series of bilateral agreements between the French government and African states to bypass French laws barring museums from releasing their collections, which have proved a longstanding barrier to restitution. Such agreements would allow for permanent restitution rather than loans.

The French government has responded to the report by announcing an initial 26 artworks will be returned to the state of Benin, with further restitution to follow.

Pressure building

France's example will increase the pressure on museums across Europe, which has been building on several fronts.

Grassroots campaign groups within European countries are demanding restitution, such as in Germany, where 40 organizations recently signed an open

letter calling for the return of historical artifacts.

The letter prompted German institutions to conduct inventories of their collections to determine which items were acquired illicitly.

There is also growing recognition of the validity of restitution claims from a new generation of political leaders. Leader of the UK Labour party Jeremy Corbyn has said that if elected, his government would be willing to discuss the return of "anything stolen or taken from occupied or colonial possession."

Several influential private collectors have also taken the side of African claimants, such as British citizen Mark Walker, who voluntarily returned a set of Benin bronzes captured by his grandfather.

Museums are also facing a raft of increasingly determined claims from the governments of dispossessed nations across the world, from sub-Saharan Africa to Greece's claims for the Elgin Marbles, to Chile's appeal for Easter Island statues

Few longstanding observers of a saga that has been taking place since the end of the colonial era expect these matters to be resolved quickly. President Macron's initial commitment to return just 26 pieces suggests a long term process.

Museums and national governments are likely to resist wholesale restitution, and national laws preventing museums from disbursing their collections will continue to present a formidable barrier.

But if the wheels are turning slowly, they do at least appear to be shifting.-------------------She opened a sex shop for women, then the backlash started





CNN is committed to covering gender inequality wherever it occurs in the world. This story is part of As Equals , a year-long series.

Cotonou, Benin -- "I am in the business of pleasure," 33-year-old Antares Adjibi said, a blue dildo and silicone breasts sitting on a shelf behind her.

Adjibi's sex shop in the heart of Cotonou is an unlikely enterprise in Benin, a west African country steeped in tradition and religion.

Nearly half of the population is Christian, almost 28% is Muslim, while more than 11% practice Vodun, or Voodoo, which originated in the region of the French-speaking West African nation and is widely regarded as its birthplace.

There are a few online businesses in Benin which sell sex accessories, but boutiques specializing in the products are uncommon. In neighboring Nigeria, sex shops are growing in popularity in Lagos, but are rare outside of cities.

"Sexuality is still taboo in Africa, particularly in Benin," Adjibi says. "Women don't have freedom of expression. They are not free to express their sexuality."

Antares Adjibi opened her store in 2013.

Adjibi opened her store Abasik in 2013 with the aim of changing that. The walls of the small shop are lined with brightly colored, flowing lingerie for women. The shelves of a separate room are filled with phallus shaped toys, handcuffs, and flesh-colored molds. But Adjibi wanted to do more than sell lingerie and sex toys, so she enrolled in sexual psychology courses and began holding free workshops for women seeking sexual advice. In the years since, she says she has helped to counsel hundreds of couples.

The concept of a sex shop was so novel in Benin that when it was launched, Adjibi was invited to speak on a local radio station about the importance of women's sexual pleasure. The backlash was immediate.

Critics targeted her social media accounts, posting comments like: "What are you talking about? God created sex, so how could anything be wrong?"

Others flagged images of her products so frequently as inappropriate that Facebook temporarily suspended her store's page, a problem that persists even though the images match the content of the articles she posts.

Most of Abasik's customers are women.

In spite of the online opposition, Adjibi's free workshops are still crowded with women and couples. She estimates that 70% of her clients are single women and the majority come to her for issues regarding pleasure.

Veronique Tognifode, a gynecologist and obstetrician from Cotonou, who works with the Association for Education, Sexuality and Health in Africa (APESSA), says that taboo associated with sex, and speaking about sexuality, is slowly changing in Benin.

Four years ago, she began answering students' questions about sex in schools across the country.

"The goal is to promote responsible sexuality, but it's also a way to generate more communication around sexuality so they are given answers without taboo," Tognifode said.

And the topic of pleasure is becoming more relevant, according to Tognifode. She says she often fields questions about sexual health and sexually transmitted diseases, but that queries about masturbation and introducing objects during sex are becoming more frequent.

"Because of social media, young people have access to information. But it's not just knowledge, it's also braving the taboo of asking more questions," Tognifode said.

A joint study by medical professionals from Benin, Sierra Leone, and The Democratic Republic of Congo surveyed 500 young people from Cotonou and found that sex solely for procreation is becoming less of a priority for young people. Half of the young men surveyed said that they have sex just for pleasure and half of the young women said that they have sex for love.

Adjibi says that the types of questions Tognifode gets take a bit of coaxing from customers in her store. Women frequently browse lingerie until an employee asks if they want to see the toys because they are too embarrassed to ask for themselves.

Adjibi told a client who said she had a stronger sex drive than her husband that she should express to her partner when she's in the mood.

"I can't just tell him that I want him. Women don't do that. Women can't just say 'I want you to make love to me.' It's impossible," Adjibi said the customer responded.

It's an attitude that Adjibi tries to address in her workshops.

"Women have the power to show their partners that their job isn't just to have children. They can be a life partner, a lover, an adviser," she says.

Women have the power to show their partners that their job isn't just to have children. They can be a life partner, a lover, an adviser. Antares Adjibi

In Benin, sexuality is typically only discussed in relation to sexual health because, despite a growing interest in safe sex, contraceptive use remains relatively low, according to a 2017 study of Benin in The Central African Journal of Public Health. This presents a barrier to how effectively women can plan pregnancies, which has a direct bearing on quality of life.

Lissette Coovi, a pharmacy director from Cotonou realized two years ago that a growing number of her customers were asking for products to improve sexual pleasure.

In response, she suggested that her cousin and his partner move to Benin to start an online sex toy business. The couple moved from France almost two years ago and started a business selling sex toys and accessories, called Smielo.

Antares Adjibi says the focus of her store is women's sexual pleasure.

Customers can peruse products on their website and pick up purchases in a backroom at one of three pharmacies, all located in Cotonou. Going around back to pick up a sex toy doesn't raise suspicion since many pharmacies already have a backroom where customers can ask private questions of the pharmacist. All of the products come in discreet packaging with only the company's name.

"Most communication with clients is via text. When clients come to the pharmacy, they're very embarrassed, so they prefer to only interact with one person to maintain as much discretion as possible," Coovi said.

But Antares Adjibi says this discretion only feeds the taboo, which she believes hurts women the most. Though the inquiring shopper can find sex toys and lingerie in shops which also carry a hodgepodge of other products in the country's largest market, Dantokpa, it's Adjibi's insistence of the importance of sexual pleasure for women that makes her stand out.

"I tell my clients that they can't be afraid. They aren't doing anything wrong by learning about their bodies and sexual pleasure," she said. "Our ancestors did things differently, but if we want to change our lives for the better, we have to take the risk. I won't hide."-------------------Why this state-run rehab clinic lets addicts shoot up





Dakar, Senegal (CNN) Inside the grounds of Fann hospital in Senegal, men and women form a substantial queue.

Those without seats loiter in hallways, and others able to bear the sweltering heat outside play checkers under a canopy of overgrown mango trees.

They are here for the Center for the Integrated Management of Addictions.

Traffickers are creating a market in a region where there was absolutely no market

A nurse calls them one by one dispensing a small cup of blue liquid. It's a daily routine for methadone treatment and psychological counseling at the center and one that many journey hours to receive.

Known locally as CEPIAD [Centre de prise en charge intégrée des addictions de Dakar], the drop-in clinic is the first in West Africa running a free opioid substitution service. The aim is to reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS among addicts.

"You get here, have your methadone and you are not thinking about taking drugs. You are thinking about moving your life forwards," says Senegalese native Moustapha Mbodj, a former heroin addict for more than 30 years.

Workshop training and activities are intended to get patients back into work.

The service available to addicts is rare in this part of the world.

offering clean needles and opioid substitutes. A CEPIAD's program is the only one of its kind in Senegal, and West Africa,offering clean needles and opioid substitutes. A 2017 report showed that out of 37 nations in Africa reporting drug use data to the United Nations, just eight offer this type of therapy to addicts.

"Most users are coming here because it's the only center really," says Mbodj, who is 58. He began snorting heroin after traveling to Paris in his early twenties to study for a degree in technology.

By the age of 27 he was jailed for dealing cocaine and deported home after serving a three-year sentence.

"My family put a lot of hopes on me. When I started using they were extremely disappointed. There was a lot of deception," he recalls. On returning home to Dakar he would steal things at home to sell and buy heroin.

The entrance of CEPIAD based within the grounds of Fann hospital in downtown Dakar.

A local market for opiates

Over 10% of injecting users in the country are living with HIV, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) estimates, compared with less than one percent of the general population.

The country has seen a spike in opiates trafficked on their way to Europe creating an uncommon local market over the last decade according to the UNODC.

"Often what the traffickers are doing is they are paying their support staff not only in cash but in drugs," Pierre Lapaque, UNODC representative for West and Central Africa, told CNN.

"It's a very smart approach because you are creating a market in a region where there was absolutely no market ten years ago and it was just a transit area."

A voluntary survey carried out by the French National Agency for Research against AIDS unearthed more than 1,300 injecting addicts in Dakar in 2011. Previously there were no official statistics on how many people in the country were injecting drugs. A 2010 study of six states in Nigeria provided the only data for West Africa as a region.

Produce grown in the garden by patients goes to the center's canteen.

'Harm reduction' through free needles

Senegal's government reacted with a "harm reduction" program when the survey was released. Back then 18,614 free needles and 17,564 condoms were handed out to addicts over a two-year period.

By December 2014, the government opened CEPIAD, offering methadone, condoms and clean needles with money from its AIDS prevention budget and training from UNODC and various international partners, including from the US and France.

"When I came in 2015," says Mbodj, "it allowed me to slow my life down a little bit and have time for myself to think about things."

Later that year and with money from the country's National AIDS Council -- CLNS -- Mbodj was able to launch a community group for addicts, Santé Espoir Vie (SEV), which translates as "health, hope, life."

The nonprofit operates independently of CEPIAD but a few members, including Mbodj, are paid mediators recruiting new patients for the clinic.

These mediators network the city's high drug-use areas every day to connect with addicts. There are 12 mediators that go out in teams of two.

"When we go into these drug hotspots people are very comfortable with us because we used to be users. We know how to approach them," says Mbodj.

Nurse Mamadou Ka cares for a new patient who is in observation in CEPIAD.

"I wasn't looking for help'

"If they miss a treatment we go to their homes. This is the social component of our jobs. We have to sit down and talk to them and re-convince them. It's a lot of back and forth," said Mbodj.

'I have some friends on the street who could help you out' and that's when I became a sex worker Former cocaine addict, 33

Many of the patients believe the treatment and therapy offered at the center has saved them. They assume without it they'd still be using, in prison perhaps, or worse.

"For me at least it saved my life," says one woman, 33, who didn't want to be identified because she fears for her safety.

She would burn through 100,000 West African CFA francs ($175) worth of cocaine a day, funded through prostitution.

A musician friend introduced her to crack cocaine at a club when she was 20. At first he bought the drugs.

"Then he lost his job so he said 'I have some friends on the street who could help you out' and that's when I became a sex worker," she recounts.

A former addict is nearly two years into recovery from cocaine.

By the age of 22 she was selling herself on the streets. In 2013, she was jailed for 15 days for begging in public.

"I wasn't looking for help. All I was thinking about was just getting money and smoking."

She was at risk because of the unprotected sex and the violence that came with a drug-fueled lifestyle.

"At night sometimes thugs would follow us and steal our money, they would threaten us with knives and call us druggies," she says.

In 2015, she became very ill. When her sister took her to the hospital she was referred to CEPIAD for treatment and was diagnosed as HIV positive. Initially when she started treatment with counseling and drug substitution she relapsed and would still use cocaine.

"I made an agreement with the doctor that if I get married I am going to completely stop," she says. "I've been married one year and eight months. I met someone here at the center. He is on methadone treatment but he's sober."

Former addict Esther Bâ, 50, takes her daily dose of methadone. She first tried heroin at the age of 18.

Quitting without a substitute drug, users say, is incredibly difficult.

Mauama, who prefers we don't use her last name because of the stigma her family would face, knows this first-hand.

She sought exile from heroin and cocaine addiction in Touba, a holy city in the Muslim nation some 200 kilometers from Dakar.

"I went there because they have no dealers, no drugs, it's completely conservative," she says. "I took [opioid painkiller] Tramadol as a substitute to stop cravings but I'd last two months and go back to Dakar, get the drugs and go back up."

Her routine of abstinence and relapse lasted seven years. Then she met outreach workers from CEPIAD who offered her an alternative.

"I have been coming every day for two-and-a-half years."

Comprehensive treatment

At CEPIAD, psychologists and doctors provide counseling, HIV services, skills workshops and help with reintegrating into family networks.

Peer support workers who are themselves former drug users also offer help along the journey to a drug-free life.

"All of those things are a good part of a comprehensive approach to treatment," says Robin Clark, a professor in the Departments of Family Medicine and Community Health and Quantitative Health Sciences at the University of Massachusetts. He focuses on substance abuse and primary care.

As well as arts therapy, counseling is available to get addicts back into work.

It is crucial for such clinics to move beyond medication, he says of the use of methadone.

"There are a lot of psychosocial support just around daily living that really good effective centers try to offer to help people re-enter normal life after they have been unemployed, many people have been in prison," says Clark.

Apart from Senegal, Tanzania, Kenya and Mauritius are among the only eight countries in Africa offering 'harm reduction' approaches due to lack of funding and preference for faith-based and traditional healers.

"There are still challenges," admits Mbayang Fall Bousso, CEPIAD's health coordinator, who calls herself the organization's temple guardian.

"It's still only in Dakar and inside a hospital so not many people know it exists."

Those making the daily commute face logistical challenges and she wants the clinic to run nationally.

"This way we can be able to reach out to those who are still not able or willing to come," says Bousso. "To reduce the prevalence of HIV, hepatitis B, TB and of course to reduce the amount of users."

Since CEPIAD opened, more than 700 addicts have sought reprieve here. Now, outreach teams are targeting M'bour, about 80 kilometers south of Dakar.

"It's a beach town. It's a very touristy town too with a lot of cocaine and heroin. Consequently a lot of users," says Mbodj. "Every day I meet people that I think can be helped."-------------------Land was stolen under apartheid. It still hasn't been given back





Besters, South Africa (CNN) To understand what questions of land seizures and farm murders are all about, rural KwaZulu Natal is a good place to start.

Roland Henderson walks on the creaky floorboards of his stone farmhouse and points to a series of five sepia photographs hanging on the cream wall.

"These are my ancestors on the wall. So, if I loaf about during the day, they are watching me," he says with a chuckle.

Henderson's family has farmed in Besters, a cattle district of rolling grassland hills and acacia trees, for five generations.

"History is complicated in South Africa," I remark to him. "Our forebears took land from people. If not always directly, it was certainly helped by the legislation of the previous government. What do you think of that part of your legacy?"

"We can't ignore that. I don't think commercial farmers should atone for all the sins of apartheid that were committed," he says.

In Besters, the farmers are grappling hands-on with one of South Africa's most challenging historical problems.

When Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress came to power in South Africa in 1994, one of the key dilemmas they faced was the so-called land question.

The policy of pushing non-white South Africans off the land to the benefit of whites officially began with the 1913 Native Lands Act, though in reality the practice stretches back centuries.

The act limited black ownership to just 7% of the land. The vast majority of viable land was allotted to whites.

71-year-old Wilson Shabalala's land claim was finally granted, only to see the government official in charge of the transfer take the farm for himself.

President Cyril Ramaphosa recently described the Lands Act as South Africa's "original sin."

"In my own family it happened twice, where land was taken, we were moved from where my parents had grown up owning land, working the land, they were moved and dropped into an arid place with no compensation whatsoever," said Ramaphosa in an exclusive interview with CNN.

"As it is now, the poverty that we have in South Africa, in part, has been given rise to by people not having assets."

This racist geography was accelerated during the apartheid years, when legislation codified the nationalist party's aims to keep races physically separated. Blacks and mixed-race South Africans were removed from cities and pushed into townships or homelands -- land allotted to non-whites, according to their ethnic identity.

They had to have a passbook, a kind of internal passport, to travel to designated white areas.

In Ladysmith, the nearest town to Besters, the "black spots" in town were erased in the 1970s, the non-white families forced out to a township called Ezakheni, some 15 miles away.

With the advent of democracy, land redistribution was, in theory, a top priority. But the South African government's efforts have been beset by problems.

The farmers in Besters didn't wait for them to rectify the past.

In our district I have seven neighbors and they are all different colors ... there's place in the sun for us all. Roland Henderson, farmer

More than a decade ago, the commercial farmers in Besters held hundreds of meetings with the local community. As a result, with the help of government money, they have redistributed almost half of their district's land.

"It's complicated and there are many layers of history and many layers of conflict, but if you put everybody around a table and you talk to each other openly and honestly, you can find each other," says Henderson.

Emerging farmers like Ndizane Khosa have used their new land to raise cattle, chickens and sheep, and access to capital has allowed them to pull their families out of poverty.

Farmers like Ndizane Khosa have used their new land to pull their families out of poverty.

"When we were growing up we had no idea how this farming worked, but our grandkids have the opportunity to learn properly now. I can pass that knowledge to them," Khosa says.

"In our district I have seven neighbors and they are all different colors, but we live happily together and there's place in the sun for us all," says Henderson.

The success of land redistribution in Besters is the anomaly, not the norm.

Exhaustive studies show that the ANC-led government has failed to execute its policy of land restitution and redistribution because of corruption, mismanagement and a lack of will. The vast majority of private land -- farmland included -- is owned by whites.

"A lot is at stake," said Ramaphosa. "You could even say that the stability of the country is at stake. And I am not fond of failing at anything. And this issue we will not fail on."

The ANC, pushed by an insurgent opposition party on the left, has resolved to amend the constitution to explicitly allow land redistribution without compensation. It is a highly contentious move that is working through a parliamentary process.

Henderson's agreement to hand over some of his property is an anomaly rather than the norm.

While Henderson, Khosa and the other farmers of Besters managed to broker a negotiated future for the land in their rural slice of South Africa, they are facing new pressures to take sides in the land debate.

They say the extremes could scupper the experiment of a democratic South Africa.

"We are getting drowned out by the rhetoric and by the noise of the politicians and the noise of others," says Henderson on the balcony of his farmhouse. "It is difficult to galvanize the middle, because we tend to be more silent than the extremes. The middle needs to have their voice heard."-------------------Breast cancer: In South Africa, mastectomies have an agonizing wait. One surgeon is changing that





(CNN) Before Anne Borg was finally diagnosed with breast cancer, she woke up early every week to be first in line by 6 a.m. for a medical consultation at a government-run hospital in Cape Town, South Africa.

Although the hospital wasn't far, it was a long wait at the overcrowded clinic full of other medically uninsured South Africans.

"I don't have medical insurance, and so I couldn't afford everything that was going on. All the tests needed. You can get them quicker if you do it privately," Borg explained. "At the public hospital, there are always between 20 to 30 people waiting ahead of you."

It took six months to get a diagnosis, and by that time, she needed surgery.

Thankfully, the 74-year-old recalls, a friend had advised her to ask about a project run by surgeons that help breast cancer patients get their surgery quicker on the public health system: Project Flamingo.

Within two weeks, Borg was scheduled for surgery. She had a double mastectomy in September, 2018.

Dr Liana Roodt operating on a patient and assisted by Dr Michael Brombacher.

"They saw that the [surgery] list was too long, so they formed Project Flamingo," Borg said. "They gave up their own time on a Saturday to do these operations."

Breast cancer is often detected at a late stage, with one study finding that the time to diagnosis in Cape Town was on average 8½ months. Waiting times for a mastectomy after diagnosis can be up to four months in South Africa.

Project Flamingo , founded by surgeon Dr. Liana Roodt, aimed to fix this after Roodt routinely experienced this in her clinic at Groote Schuur, a state-funded teaching hospital in Cape Town.

Borg, who also went through cervical cancer when she was 31, now volunteers at the charity to make sure women don't experience the same challenges she did in getting treatment early.

An agonizing wait

For eight years, Roodt has been dedicating her free time and recruiting other surgical volunteers and nurses to get a backlog of vital life-saving surgery scheduled -- for free.

"So many operations need to be done quickly," Roodt said. "But people were waiting three or four months after diagnosis before they could actually get their surgery done."

JUST WATCHED Breast cancer: Know the facts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Breast cancer: Know the facts 01:19

Many operating rooms across the country were empty on weekends and public holidays, so in 2010, Roodt started raising funds to schedule and pay for the necessary facilities and nurses on those days.

"I just wrote an email to everybody in my email inbox," she recalled, confessing that she didn't know how to proceed at the beginning.

A few survivors of breast cancer responded right away, and some of her colleagues offered to help kick-start her vision by volunteering their own free time to perform surgeries. Roodt admitted that it took "quite a few years to gain momentum."

500 free surgeries

Getting the right permissions and regulations in place took an astonishing three years, Roodt said.

Even so, more than 500 women have benefited from mastectomies after Roodt and other surgeons began devoting their time freely.

Her "catchup" surgeries reduced the backlog at Groote Schuur from a 12-week wait to between two and four weeks.

The project has spread to nearby Tygerberg hospital, another public health institute in Parow, Cape Town, where Borg had her surgery.

Theatre sisters (nurses) on a break between surgeries.

Thanks to Roodt's determination, Project Flamingo has managed to recruit about 10 regular surgical professionals, 10 anesthetists and 10 volunteers who make up 15 staff members devoting their time to each hospital.

"We've had enough people willing to donate their time. ... Finding nursing time is a challenge, so we pay nursing staff," Roodt said.

To make the process fair, Roodt and her team do not select the patients to benefit; instead, they're chosen from those already on the hospitals' systems.

"At least six to 15 surgeries are performed a month," Roodt said. "Some of the patients have paid a small fee depending on their income. This is in agreement with the billing policy of the Department of Health to cover their hospital admission. We take care of the expensive part: the surgery."

Lack of options

recent report from a group of surgeons in South Africa suggested that the number of specialist breast centers nationwide needs to be increased to cope with demand.

"The standard we are saying is that you should not wait more than 30 days between going to see a doctor and getting a [breast cancer] diagnosis and we think that is possible," said Dr. Sarah Rayne, a surgeon and co-author of the 2017 report.

"Even in Johannesburg, where you have one of the best centers with the best outcomes, they fail to reach that target more than 60% of the time."

Rayne says the problem goes beyond timely operations.

"More than 87% of our [South African] patients require chemotherapy. It means that by operating alone you won't cure that person of cancer. Chemotherapy is only available in five or six centers in the whole country," Rayne said.

Radiation equipment is also scarce. "I think in the whole of Africa, more than half of them [radiotherapy machines] are in South Africa," Rayne said.

There are more machines in the US than the whole of Africa based on the data collected by the International Atomic Energy Agency.

The other challenge is the health system itself.

"In South Africa, more than 65% of the population exist on less than 1,000 rand ($72) a month," Rayne said.

"Only 13% have private health care. Meanwhile, 70% of the doctors in South Africa only work in the private health system."

The problem is amplified in rural areas. "The health clinic may not be staffed very well because the specialists don't live in that area."

"Doctors have left the provincial hospitals because there's persistent prolonged shortages of staff caused by austerity measures put in place by the provincial government," Mvuyisi Mzukwa, a chairman for the KwaZulu-Natal coastal branch of the South African Medical Association, told CNN in an earlier interview

But this is not a problem that's unique to South Africa. It's echoed across the continent.

Dr Liana Roodt in-between surgeries.

Doctors going overseas

South Africa has about six surgeons per 100,000 people. The ratio in the United States is 36.

Watch, noted that there were 72,000 nationally registered Nigerian doctors, according to the A 2018 report by NOIPolls, a local polling company and advocacy group Nigeria HealthWatch, noted that there were 72,000 nationally registered Nigerian doctors, according to the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, but only 35,000 practice in the country.

Many doctors have emigrated to practice in the UK and US, the report notes.

In Ghana, Dr. Verna Vanderpuye, a consultant clinical oncologist at Korle Bu Teaching Hospital, says it is hard to find the competency. "The quality of cancer surgeries is also very important," she said, suggesting that surgical skills are limited in rural areas.

Both Rayne and Vanderpuye admit that persuading patients to have a mastectomy is also difficult.

"For young women, there's the fact that when they have a mastectomy, they only have one breast, and some, they lose their spouses and their position in the society," Vanderpuye said.

In a 2018 study , she found that a fear of mastectomy was the primary reason Ghanaian women present with advance stages of the disease.

Fear of treatment was also among the reasons why some women in South Africa had advanced breast cancer.

Amy MacFarlane, a final year medical student closes a wound after operation.

Feeling like a woman

"In an ideal setting, psychological support, counseling and even practical things like bereavement counseling are super important but seen as a luxury right now," Roodt said.

In South Africa, Project Flamingo started distributing pampering packs to patients that included bathroom essentials, magazines and beauty treats, all for free.

So far, 4,500 packs have been given away by Roodt and her colleagues and friends.

"We were trying to show that even though being in hospital can be a daunting experience and you see us running around the wards, we actually do care. ... This diagnosis does not mean you lose your feminist spirit, even though it feels like it," Roodt said.

They can still feel like a woman despite what they are going through, she adds.

Michelle Rennie survived breast cancer 18 years ago, at the age of 46, and is now a director for Project Flamingo, sourcing products for the pamper packs.

"These pamper packs have helped to build a community," Rennie said.

"We give them to each newly diagnosed woman," she added.

To combat the loneliness that many cancer patients experience, the project also connects survivors like Borg and Rennie with new patients who offer mentorship and support throughout treatment.

Project Flamingo theater nurses on a break.

For Borg, this kind of relationship building is important. "Only if you have been through this can you understand what these people are doing," Borg said. "I had a wonderful husband that went with me every day and sat with me every day, but there was a woman next to me with no one."

Although Roodt has now joined private practice, she still devotes her unpaid time to the project, seeing patients at Groote Shuur.

She has expanded the project to cover other cancers and complications from cancer, such as colorectal cancer.

"Many [colorectal cancer patients] develop stomas and have to walk around with a poo bag attached onto their stomachs. But some of those stomas can be reversed after a period of time," she said.

"Imagine having a poo bag attached for two to five years and dealing with a stoma when you are living in a shack with no electricity and no running water," Roodt said. "It's a complete nightmare. It's not good enough to just take care of the cancer but the quality of life is terrible."

"There is a part of me that is hopeful of there not being a need for Project Flamingo," she said. "For a health-care system that is equal and fairer."

That is a "pipe dream" for now, she realizes, and so the project will continue to run for as long as it is needed.

On the unexpected success of the project, Roodt added: "The amazing thing is the power of human stories. It's people telling their stories and humanity responding to it."-------------------Tanzania's LGBT community 'fearing for their lives'





(CNN) Members of Tanzania's LGBT community are fearing for their lives, hiding in their homes and even fleeing the country after threats from a powerful politician to round up gay Tanzanians, activists said.

The announcement from the regional governor of Tanzania's largest city, Dar es Salaam, has also led to a new travel warning by the US State Department warning US citizens to remove any material on social media that could "run afoul" of Tanzania's anti-homosexuality laws.

"I have closed my office today and we will not be operating for a while," said James Wandera Ouma, one of the few activists openly campaigning for LGBT rights in the country.

Another well-known activist, who cannot be named safety reasons, said that gay Tanzanians are in hiding.

"We are worried about both those who are known to the community and those who are closeted," he said.

Read More

The LGBT community in Tanzania has suffered through community and police harassment before, but last week the regional governor of Dar es Salaam vowed to set up a task force to round up and arrest people suspected of being gay. "I am announcing this to every citizen of Dar es Salaam. If you know any gays, report them to me," said Paul Makonda in a news conference with local reporters last Monday. The task force was supposed to be launched this Monday. So far it is unclear if the governor's deadline is being met. Multiple attempts by CNN to reach Makonda were unsuccessful. "It is extremely regrettable that Tanzania has chosen to take such a dangerous path in its handling of an already marginalized group of people," said Joan Nyanyuki, Amnesty International's regional director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes. "The idea of this task force must be immediately abandoned as it only serves to incite hatred among members of the public." Central government not on board On Sunday, after intense international pressure, the Tanzanian government tried to distance itself from the controversial governor's plans. "His views are not the view of the government. The state would like to use this opportunity to assure people that it will continue to respect all organizations that are relating to human rights," a Foreign Ministry statement said. The statement did not criticize the governor's actions, nor reassure gay Tanzanians of protection. "If the government really means it, then they should stop these actions by Makonda. Otherwise the harassment and fear will just continue," the LGBT activist said. Ouma said that until they get guarantees of protection, people will just remain in hiding. "I need the government's assurance that I will not be attacked," he said. Tanzanian President John Magufuli's government has tried to distance itself from the regional official's stance. Tanzania is a deeply conservative country and, unlike in neighboring Kenya, hasn't seen progress on LGBT rights. On the contrary, under the current administration of John Magufuli, rights groups believe that the situation has gotten worse. Human Rights Watch says the government has shut down LGBT-friendly clinics, prohibited community organizations from doing HIV outreach targeting key populations and arrested activists holding workshops on legal advice. LGBT people face a 30-year jail sentence in Tanzanian for gay male sex, a holdover from colonial-era laws, mirroring severe penalties for same-sex relationships across many African countries. But the prospect of a task force scouring the streets and social media accounts for "evidence" of LGBT Tanzanians has terrified many in the community already dealing with a homophobic community and government. But the activists contacted by CNN say they refuse to leave. "I have to help people who are in hiding. The government needs to stop this harassment. We are, after all, all citizens of Tanzania," said the LGBT activist.-------------------Can this two-year-old startup be Africa's Paypal - or Stripe?





Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) If you're making online payments to or from Nigeria, the chances are that a local startup, Paystack is helping you spend your money.

Africa has long has been perceived as one of technology's final frontiers.

Few have felt that perception worse than businesses and professionals who have had to use more traditional methods to make and receive international payments.

In January 2016, two young techies, Shola Akinlade and Ezra Olubi came together to solve that problem by launching Paystack, a payments processing company.

Just over two years in, the young startup, with headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria, could become Africa's response to Paypal and Stripe.

Read More

Bridging the gap When Olubi and Akinlade first approached the idea for Paystack, receiving foreign payments in Nigeria was challenging. "It would take a minimum of 3 weeks for a business to start accepting payments online, from filling paper forms to making up-front payments to going through a complex integration process," Shola Akinlade, the company's CEO told CNN. Paystack's attempt to solve that problem was to provide a website link for secure online payments. "We took it a step further, realizing that most businesses don't have access to developers and built a simple tool that allows a business [to] create a payment link they can add on their website or share with their customers on social without needing a developer." Follow CNN Africa on social media See more stories on Marketplace Africa and share your thoughts with us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram Now, according to the startup's CEO, "businesses can start accepting payments in less than 30 mins." "We started Paystack because we believe that better payment tools are one of the most important things that African businesses need to unlock their explosive potential," Akinlade says. That aim has helped the company raise over $10 million dollars in funding over the last two years. Paystack says it now processes nearly 15% of all online payments in Africa's largest economy - Nigeria, with $20 million in transactions paid out to merchants in August 2018. Investment potential That same month, Paystack announced that it raised $8 million in a round of funding led by Stripe - another payments processing company which processed more than half of all American transactions in 2017. The investment underscores a trend that has seen global technology companies investing into the startup ecosystems in Nigeria and Ghana. "The Paystack founders are highly technical, fanatically customer oriented, and unrelentingly impatient," said Patrick Collison, CEO of Stripe, in a statement. "We're excited to back such people in one of the world's fastest-growing regions." Musician Akon is creating a futuristic city and his own cryptocurrency in Senegal Africa's immense population holds a huge potential for payment platforms. But according to the World Bank, half of Sub-Saharan Africa's population do not use official financial services. Providing financial services for people without a bank account is Paystack's next aim. "We're investing heavily in making available all types of local and regional payment channels beyond card payments to ensure that customers can pay however they feel most comfortable," Akinlade says. Some of its biggest investors are certain that by exploring offline payment systems like QR codes, Paystack can bring the rest of Africa into global online trade. "Our investment in Paystack aligns with the kind of investments we look for -- those that will help extend our reach into the global commerce ecosystem as it changes and grows, and that will provide mutually beneficial business opportunities," said Otto Williams, head for strategic partnerships, fintechs and ventures for Visa in Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa (CEMEA), in a statement. Paystack says it's looking forward to launching in numerous African countries soon.-------------------South African diver exposes the secret lives of sea creatures





(CNN) — The Atlantic Ocean off the southern-most tip of Africa is so cold it feels like your skin is burning. But still Craig Foster slips into the frigid water every day, without a wetsuit or scuba gear, off to explore an underwater kingdom.

Some might call him reckless -- in the past, Foster, a filmmaker, has dived with Nile crocodiles in Botswana's Okavango Delta and swum with great white sharks. But for the past eight years, he has turned his attention to a vast underwater kelp forest off the west coast of South Africa where he spends his days tracking sea creatures.

He has now published a book, along with fellow diver Ross Frylinck, documenting his close encounters with these wild animals.

The book, "Sea Change: Primal Joy and the art of underwater tracking," details how he touched a cat shark on its "nose" before it lay relaxed in his hands "tame as a puppy." It describes how an enormous stingray wrapped its wings around him for a few frightening seconds, and how a Cape clawless otter reached out to touch his face.

But his most memorable encounter was with an octopus he befriended and accompanied on hunts.

Foster said it took years of diving and learning how to completely relax around animals before they started engaging with him. Sea Change Project

Foster's octopus even made a cameo on the BBC's "Blue Planet II" documentary last year, where it demonstrated an impressive camouflage technique in which it grabs shells and stones to build a temporary armored shell around itself to ward off small predators.

This is just one of dozens of never-seen-before behavioral traits that Foster has witnessed on his dives. He has discovered seven new species, including a shrimp that was named after him: Heteromysis Fosteri.

Dangers in the deep

Unsurprisingly, Foster doesn't fear the bigger beasts that patrol the sea forest.

"Certainly (it is scary) if you're not expecting it and a big white shark is there in front of you and the water is murky," he told CNN. "But to be honest there's very little to fear from the animals, they are not the danger."

Over the years Foster has taken thousands of intimate photos of wildlife, including this extreme close up of a pyjama catshark's eye. Sea Change Project

Yet Foster has put his life on the line in the ocean.

"I've come very close to death a number of times, but never close to death from a shark," he said. "It's always being thrown by a huge wave onto a rock, being cut into pieces, or jammed in a cave underwater."

He is more mindful of the multiple threats facing the kelp forest: plastic and chemical pollution, over fishing, poaching, ocean mining and climate change.

Through his work Foster hopes to raise awareness of what he calls the "great African sea forest" — which spans from Cape Town up the coast to Namibia.

This particular kelp forest extends for 1,000 kilometers and is just 100 meters wide. It is one of the most productive ecosystems in the world, providing food, shelter and the ideal habitat for various species including endangered sea snails called abalone, the Cape fur seal and a variety of shark species.

Foster believes that if he can get others to think of this sea forest as one of the natural wonders of the world, much like the Great Barrier Reef , they will be inspired to conserve it.

Marine scientist Kerry Sink is leading the charge to protect South Africa's unique and threatened offshore marine life.

Protecting underwater worlds

But Foster also stressed the need for marine protected areas to further conserve South Africa's waters.

Last month, South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs approved the declaration of 20 marine protected areas, collectively covering 50,000 square kilometers. This means 5% of the country's oceans are now protected, compared to 0.4% previously.

"We are now working to try get to 10%," said Foster. "I think marine protected areas are absolutely critical, we should ideally be at 50%."

He adds that it should be in everyone's interest to "honor our pact with the wild."-------------------Passion to Portfolio





This startup wants to help travelers get online wherever they go-------------------How a designer got his scarf into 'Black Panther'





When Wale Oyejide learned that Disney and Marvel were making a "Black Panther" movie, he wanted a piece of the action.

With African American director Ryan Coogler at the helm, the film revives the 1960s Marvel Comics character, also known as T'Challa, king of the fictional African nation of Wakanda.

"Like millions of others, when I heard that the film was being made, I was very excited," said the co-founder of Philadelphia-based clothing brand Ikiré Jones. "I selfishly thought that our designs would be the perfect representation for the [lead] character."

He decided to reach out to Marvel on Twitter.

Seriously, @Marvel are you guys going to let @IkireJones do the wardrobe for "Black Panther" or nah? pic.twitter.com/9g6SEpxpVN — Ikiré Jones (@IkireJones) March 22, 2016

"Not long after that, I was contacted by a stylist who asked if we'd be interested in participating," he said.

Related: How a top actor went from action movies to baking cookies

Of course, he accepted. When T'Challa -- played by Chadwick Boseman -- appears at the United Nations in the film, he is wearing an Ikiré Jones scarf.

Ikiré Jones created several pieces for the film, but only one -- the silk scarf "From Wakanda, with Love" -- made it into the final edit. The scarf is made in Italy and retails for $285.

"It was pretty stunning to see our work presented on such a large platform," said Oyejide.

A reflection of heritage

After working as a hip-hop producer collaborating with the likes of Detroit rapper J Dilla, and then training as an attorney, Oyejide founded Ikiré Jones in 2012 with tailor Sam Hubler. He had studied with Hubler's sister at law school.

"It seemed like a natural decision for us to put our talents together," said Oyejide, who moved from Nigeria to the United States when he was a teenager. The brand relates to his family story. "Ikiré is a town in Nigeria where my father grew up, [and] Jones is my wife's family name," he added.

Ikiré Jones has established an aesthetic that projects "nobility and cultural inclusion," explained Oyejide. "Our work blends conventional European silhouettes with bolder colors and fabrics that are inspired by African culture."

The Wakanda effect

"Black Panther" made $1 billion at the box office globally within a month of release. Since it opened in the United States in February, Ikiré Jones has a seen a fivefold increase in sales, according to Oyejide.

The boutique brand, which has just two permanent members of staff, sells to customers through its website.

"We find ourselves having to adjust to the vast increase in scale that we are putting out," said Oyejide. "It's a good challenge for any business to deal with."

He wants his brand to use the spotlight to further its cultural mission.

Related: Designer bags a spot at Urban Outfitters

"The brand is essentially a vehicle to change perceptions about immigrants, migrants and vulnerable populations across the globe," said Oyejide. "Each collection references issues that real people are struggling with. We attempt to tell their stories by using our art as a canvas for their vivid life experiences."-------------------This football star scored a new career making Cognac





When professional footballers retire, some go into coaching while others become TV analysts. Not many produce their own Cognac.

Olivier Tebily spent years on the international football circuit, including a lengthy stint in the English Premier League. The defender also played for his home nation of Ivory Coast.

The retired footballer, 41, now spends his days tending vineyards in western France, turning grapes into Cognac.

Tebily was a toddler when his family moved from Ivory Coast to France. It was there, as a teenager, that he was first introduced to life on a vineyard.

But what started as a summer job for a young man in search of pocket change would turn into a passion -- and a business.

When Tebily signed his first professional contract at the age of 18, one of his first purchases was a few hectares of vineyards.

His family tended the vines during a football career with stops at clubs in France, Scotland, England and Canada. A highlight was representing Ivory Coast at the the Africa Cup of Nations.

Related: Sofia Vergara is the best-paid actress on TV -- and a business maven

When it was time to retire from the sport, Tebily knew where he wanted to be: Back among the vines.

"The day I decided to stop my career I stopped completely and I switched professions," said Tebily. "I made the choice to stop football and resume my wine making."

Cognac is a special spirit. Renowned for its richness, the brandy can only be made from white grapes in the Cognac region of France. Popular brands include Hennessy and Courvoisier.

Tebily said it was hard to get started in the insular business, which produces annual exports worth $3.5 billion.

"For me to enter a world of viticulture ... shocked a lot of winemakers, because the vineyards are usually transferred from father to son," he said.

Related: This app helps regular folks make sense of wine

Tebily was able to expand his acreage when a Cognac producer who was nearing retirement took a liking to the former footballer and agreed to sell his vineyards.

"He preferred to let an African achieve his dream," said Tebily. "It gave him satisfaction to do the opposite of what everybody expected."

The 22 hectares that Tebily now owns yield roughly 11,000 bottles of Cognac a year. He sells part of the haul to a larger producer, while the rest is sold under his own label, Cognac OT.

The label has four varieties that sell for between $37 and $305. The cheapest is aged for a minimum of two years, while the premier "Tres Vieux" offering matures for over 25 years.

Tebily said he hopes his career change will serve as an inspiration to others.

"I realized that everybody is capable of doing something completely different than they did before," he said. "For an ex-player to do something else is very encouraging, it's very gratifying."-------------------Hats off to this age-old fashion accessory





South African hat brand Simon and Mary has caught the attention of celebrities including Will.i.am and Aerosmith's Steve Tyler.-------------------South Africa's top iced tea company is a marketing phenomenon





It's an unusual scene: A wave of cyclists wearing giraffe costumes flood down a busy street, handing out drink cans to surprised members of the public.

While unconventional, marketing events like this have become a trademark of BOS, an iced tea brand that has conquered the South African market and is now gaining converts in the United States and Europe.

"We want to put a smile on your face and create those moments of joy," said CEO Dave Evans, who joined the company shortly after it was launched in 2010.

Consumers and employees have been seduced by the company's playful attitude and slick branding. Other marketing projects include Twitter-activated vending machines and artsy skateboarding parties.

Evans attributes much of the firm's success to its eccentric marketing efforts, but the company also relies on a winning local ingredient.

Indigenous to South Africa, BOS organic tea is made from the rooibos (red bush) plant. It's "quintessentially from South Africa" said Evans. The company says the tea is rich in antioxidants, a selling point for increasingly health-conscious consumers.

The company is tapping into a booming global market for premium beverages, including products without alcohol. Over the past decade, traditional carbonated drinks have lost 10% of their market share, according to Evans, and a wave of competing brands such as Britain's Fever Tree have enjoyed rapid growth.

With flavor combinations ranging from lemon and peach to lime and ginger, BOS sold roughly 10 million units last year. "We've run at north of 70% compound annual growth rate since 2011," said Evans.

The CEO believes the next big market is the United States, which offers "tremendous growth opportunities." Having only launched in California in December, he expects half of the firm's sales to come from the United States within three years. The tea is being sold in premium natural food retailers.

BOS launched its first international office in Amsterdam in 2014, and it now sells iced tea in 14 countries.

The company does need to be careful about sourcing its key ingredient. Rooibos plants take three years to generate their first harvest.

But that hasn't scared away investors. For example, former Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson purchased a 10% stake in the company.-------------------How South Africa built one of the world's most advanced telescopes





A telescope built in South Africa is revealing new details about the Milky Way.

"It's the clearest view ever made of the center of our galaxy," chief scientist Fernando Camilo said of images produced by the MeerKAT radio telescope.

The telescope is made up of 64 satellite dishes that are connected across five miles in a semi-arid and sparsely populated area of South Africa, where signal interference is minimal.

Each satellite dish stands 65 feet tall, and weighs roughly as much as seven large African bush elephants. The number and sensitivity of the dishes have enabled scientists to produce breakthrough images using the telescope.

"They just did everything right," said Farhad Yusef-Zadeh, an astronomy expert at Northwestern University in Illinois. "This image that I saw it just blew me away, I never thought we would see these details."

Related: Why Goodyear and Delta Faucet are doing research in space

Built over 10 years at a cost of $330 million, the telescope is used by scientists to study hydrogen activity and pulsars. MeerKAT could deepen our understanding of how the universe was formed, and is "the best in the world" at what it does, according to Camilo.

Officially launched in July, the telescope has also made South Africa a key global destination for radio astronomy.

MeerKAT was funded by the South African government and 75% of the work went to local companies. Organizers say the project supported over 7,000 jobs in rural local communities.

EMSS Antennas, which is based near Cape Town, built the receivers for MeerKAT using a team of 30 engineers.

"It was really an incredible achievement," said company director Isak Theron, who added that the project helped the firm attract top talent from across South Africa.

Related: SpaceX's Falcon Heavy launch in pictures

South Africa's space push won't end with MeerKAT.

The telescope is a key component of phase one of SKA (Square Kilometer Array), which is an international effort to build the world's largest radio telescope.

Overseen by 12 countries, SKA will include up to 3,000 dishes and is designed to scan the sky 10,000 times faster than any other telescope. It is due to be completed by 2030.-------------------Aspen Pharmacare wants to play in the big leagues





Aspen Pharmacare has gone from startup to the largest generic drug company in Africa in just two decades. Now it's trying to take on the biggest American and European players in the business.

The South African company's global growth has accelerated in the past five years, allowing it to compete in two areas in particular, according to CEO and founder Stephen Saad.

"Outside the United States we are number one in anaesthetics," he told CNNMoney.

Aspen Pharmacare (APNHY) has also developed a leading position in medication for thrombosis, used to prevent blood clotting.

Luresha Chetty, an analyst at Standard Bank, said Aspen had made acquisitions in both fields, allowing it to "move onto the leader board" by sales for those therapies.

Founded by four entrepreneurs in Durban in 1997, Aspen now has 26 manufacturing facilities around the world and operations in 50 countries.

Related: This South African company bet on Tencent in 2001. It paid off massively

Developing economies currently account for 55% of group revenue, but that figure looks likely to rise.

"We're seeing really strong growth out of China," Saad said, adding that South America is also growing fast.

Aspen executives are focusing on high potency drugs, such as those used to break down cancer cells and hormonal replacement treatments.

Earlier this year, the company announced plans for a new $80 million plant in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, that will manufacture drugs to treat late stage cancers. The company said it will produce up to 3.6 billion pills per year and employ 500 people.

Related: Sanofi is stockpiling drugs to prepare for Brexit

Since it was founded, Aspen has focused on treatments that are difficult to make.

Saad said the company's work providing antiretrovirals to people who are HIV positive in South Africa and beyond was "probably our greatest achievement."

Aspen Pharmacare currently delivers daily antiretroviral treatments to approximately 1 million patients. Only 50,000 people in Africa had access to such drugs 15 years ago.

Its largest manufacturing plants are in Europe and South Africa, where lower costs support mass production. The European sites focus heavily on the use of technology.

By acquiring products from rivals such as GlaxoSmithKline (GLAXF) and AstraZeneca (AZN), Aspen has been able to benefit from economies of scale.

But it can't escape the pressure for lower drug prices that is weighing on the entire pharmaceutical industry.

"For Aspen, we expect the greatest challenge will be delivering improved returns," said Standard Bank's Chetty.-------------------Meet the 19-year-old tech genius coding at Ethiopia's first AI lab





(CNN) At 19-years-old, Betelhem Dessie is perhaps the youngest pioneer in Ethiopia's fast emerging tech scene, sometimes referred to as 'Sheba Valley'.

Dessie is coordinating a number of nationwide programs run by robotics lab iCog, the Addis Ababa based artificial intelligence (AI) lab that was involved in developing the world famous Sophia the robot.

She has four software programs copyrighted solely to her name - including an app developed for the Ethiopian government to map rivers used for irrigation.

And it all began when she was just 9.

She recalls: "On my 9th birthday I wanted to celebrate so I asked my father for money." When her father said he didn't have any to give her that day, Dessie took matters into her own hands.

Making use of the materials around her - her father sold electronics in their home city of Harar in eastern Ethiopia - Dessie started with small tasks such as video editing and sending music to customer's cell phones.

"I got about 90 dollars - then I celebrated my birthday" she laughs, sitting in one of the robotics and coding rooms at iCog, Ethiopia's first AI lab.

iCog launched in 2013 and Ethiopia's tech industry is set to take off even faster this year following the liberalization of the country's economy under new Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed

Abiy who took office in April, has part privatized a number of state owned companies including telecoms provider Ethio Telecom. It's a bid to hopefully pave the way for better internet access. The country is seeing huge changes following a government sanctioned internet blackout that took place prior to Abiy taking office.

Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Satellite cities, often billed as "smart cities" -- connected, tech-driven urban areas -- are being built by a number of African countries. Is this a solution to the continent's rapidly urbanizing population?



Konza Technological City, Kenya - As part of the Kenyan government's Vision 2030 project, Konza Technological City located 60km outside Nairobi, aims to become a world-class technological and innovation hub. The cost of the so-called "Silicon Savanna" is expected to reach an eye-watering $15.5bn.



See more of Africa's new cities. Hide Caption 1 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Konza Technological City, Kenya – The government plans to complete the techno city some time after 2030. The Konza Development Authority (KTDA) estimates Konza will bring in $1bn every year and create 100,000 jobs. There are critics, though, who are skeptical that techies will want to relocate away from Nairobi, already a buzzing technological hub. Hide Caption 2 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Konza Technological City, Kenya – The site, spread across 5,000 acres, will not only be a center of technology and education, but will provide new homes and leisure activities with shopping malls and other amenities. Kenya's ICT sector continues to grow and is a world leader for mobile tech. The country wants this new "techno polis" to be a catalyst for the economy. Hide Caption 3 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Eko Atlantic, Nigeria – Is this Nigeria's answer to Dubai? Eko Atlantic is the ambitious multi-billion dollar project that aims to transform Lagos, the country's most populated city. Its creators want it to become the new financial hub for Nigeria -- bringing in 150,000 commuters every day. Hide Caption 4 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Eko Atlantic, Nigeria – Eko Atlantic is a privately funded project in partnership with the Lagos State Government. Once finished, it plans to be home to a quarter of a million people. The new city is connected off the Victoria Island, a district in Lagos. Hide Caption 5 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Eko Atlantic, Nigeria – Eko Atlantic is being built along Lagos's upmarket Bar Beach coastline. It will provide classy accommodation and high-tech infrastructure. Hide Caption 6 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Eko Atlantic, Nigeria – It's being constructed on 10 square kilometers of reclaimed land from the Atlantic Ocean, as shown in this satellite image. Hide Caption 7 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Eko Atlantic, Nigeria – Billed as the largest real estate project in Africa, Eko Atlantic is being built on tons of sand dredged from the Atlantic Ocean off the coast. However, construction has slowed as a result of Nigeria's economic stagnation. Hide Caption 8 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Tatu City, Kenya – A new mixed-use development for more than 150,000 residents, Tatu City was initiated by Rendeavour, "Africa's largest property developer." It's a 5,000 acre mixed-use development with schools, homes, sports facilities and green spaces. Hide Caption 9 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Tatu City, Kenya – It aims to be a new urban center outside the capital Nairobi, and businesses are already located in the locality. In an attempt to lure companies, the city has a special economic status providing lower businesses taxes. Hide Caption 10 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Hope City, Ghana – Announced on Ghana's independence day in 2013, a $10bn super high-tech satellite city outside Accra planned to put the country on the map for technology. Ambitions were high, but since then the project has failed to make headway. Hide Caption 11 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Hope City, Ghana – The project also aimed to host Africa's tallest building. The developers maintain it will still go ahead. Hide Caption 12 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Hope City, Ghana – Hope City was designed by Italian firm Architect OBR, and is made up of six towers. The hub will include a hospital, university, housing and recreational areas. Hide Caption 13 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Waterfall City, South Africa – It's the largest mixed-use development ever in South Africa, located between Pretoria and Johannesburg. It's expected to be complete by 2025, and could potentially create 86,000 jobs. Hide Caption 14 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Waterfall City, South Africa – The project aspires to cater for all needs: schools, shopping malls and large green spaces. Global professional services firm PricewaterhouseCoopers is set to accommodate the area's first skyscraper. Hide Caption 15 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Vision City, Rwanda – Just outside of Rwanda's capital Kigali is Vision City, the country's largest housing project. It is part of the government's strategy to embrace "smart cities." The town square will have free wifi and the street lamps will be solar-powered. Hide Caption 16 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' Kigali, Rwanda – Rwanda's capital city is undergoing a transformation. The 2020 Kigali Conceptual Masterplan plans to remodel Kigali into a high-rise, modern and tech-orientated city. Hide Caption 17 of 18 Photos: African countries plan ambitious satellite 'smart cities' King City, Ghana – King City, developed by Rendeavour, is a mixed-use development in western Ghana. The site is near the country's mining region and hopes to capitalize on the growth of the sector. It's located near Ghana's third largest city, Takoradi. Hide Caption 18 of 18

Practical apps for the community

A guiding light at iCog Labs for a football playing robot. Image: Thomas Lewton.

One program Dessie leads on at iCog is "Solve IT", which works with young people to find technological solutions to community based problems.

Dessie travels the length and breadth of the country working with students (some up to five years her senior) to inspire the next generation of innovators and entrepreneurs.

Being younger, she says, means she and other teachers are "more in touch with what the students are experiencing." In the same way women teaching women can be impactful, she adds, having had the same lived experiences.

Betelhem Dessie carries a prototype of Sophia the robot at iCog Labs. Image: Thomas Lewton.

Girls are a minority among the students attending "Solve IT", but for Dessie they have the most to contribute.

"The boys imagine more, they want to do something that's big and inspired, the girls they really want to help their community from the core," she explains.

Instead of space rockets and robots, the solutions put forward by the girls she teaches tend to be grounded and immediate - such as an SMS app that informs farmers about local weather conditions.

Dessie's passion for technology was, for the most part, supported growing up in relatively liberal Harar, but her experience isn't the norm in Ethiopia.

Teaching the basics of AI

In 2013, women accounted for a quarter of students enrolled in science and technology studies at university; while only eight percent of science researchers are women. "Unless you really are in the industry, there is no one to look up to in technology," says Dessie, pointing to this lack of female role models.

"Solve IT" students test their AI tractor at Mekele University in Ethiopia's far north. Image: Thomas Lewton.

"Anyone Can Code", is another project of Dessie's that teaches young Africans the basics of artificial intelligence, robotics, blockchain and other emerging technologies.

She is currently looking for funding for a project called "The Sophia School Bus."

"The bus will go around Ethiopia equipped with laptops and other electronic materials such as 3D printers to create more awareness on these technologies - using Sophia as a brand to attract," she explains.

With the help of Sophia the robot, Dessie hopes to inspire the next generation of coders in Ethiopia and Africa more broadly - particularly girls.

Asked why this is so important to her, she smiles.

"Who can solve the problem of a female if she cannot tell you the problem, and find her own solution?"-------------------Nigerian girls win Silicon Valley contest for app that spots fake drugs





Lagos, Nigeria (CNN) Five months ago Jessica Osita had never used a computer, sent an email or even browsed the internet, yet she is part of a team of five teenagers who have just won a major tech award in California.

Despite their limited tech knowledge, the Nigerian teens learned how to build a mobile app from scratch by using opensource software from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The app, called FD-Detector, helps users identify fake medicines using a drug's barcode to verify its authenticity and expiration date.

"I feel very excited and relieved. I'm extremely proud of myself," Osita, 15, told CNN from San Francisco, in the group's first interview since they won the 2018 Technovation Challenge on 9 August.

Named Team Save-A-Soul -- Promise Nnalue, Jessica Osita, Nwabuaku Ossai, Adaeze Onuigbo and Vivian Okoye -- spent five months researching and building the app and hope it can be a solution to the widespread sale of counterfeit drugs in Nigeria.

For Osita, there was a more personal, poignant reason for creating the app -- her brother died after fake drugs were administered to him following an accident.

"My brother died from fake drugs. I'm very motivated by the death of my brother to solve this problem," she said.

"With this app, we will relieve the burden. I feel very excited," said Osita, who has ambitions to become a pharmacist. "I want to produce genuine drugs," she says.

Osita and her four other teammates beat teams from the US, Spain, Turkey, Uzbekistan and China in the finals to secure the top spot in the junior category at the competition.

"Some people told me 'you're a girl, why are you going into tech?'" said Osita. "At first my parents didn't understand what I was doing, but it's only recently that they see what I'm doing. They are very, very proud."

Since their win, they have been feted and the world's media has been clamoring to interview them.

Winners of 2018 Silicon Valley contest, Promise Nnalue, Jessica Osita, Nwabuaku Ossai, Adaeze Onuigbo and Vivian Okoye pose with their mentor Uchenna Ugwu.

One of her teammates Promise Nnalue, 14, told CNN: "People are calling us celebrities and taking pictures with us. I'm very happy. We could not have done this without our mentor. She really believed in us and encouraged us," said Nnalue, who aspires to become a doctor.

Speaking to the teenagers it is clear that their mentor Uchenna Ugwu has had a profound impact on their lives.

Ugwu was the one who introduced them to computers and coding through her Edufun Technik organization, which teaches STEM to underprivileged children in Anambra State, southeastern Nigeria.

Ugwu says her organization has taught approximately 4,800 school children since 2014 -- over 60% of whom have been young girls -- as a means of closing the widening gender gap in STEM education.

"This is the first interview I'm granting," Ugwu told CNN from San Francisco where she says they are still in shock from the win.

"I'm overwhelmed. It was a beautiful experience for them. They have experienced so many firsts. They were entering a flight for the first time. The girls were scared and overwhelmed. They asked me 'How can we compete with these countries who have been using tech for a very long time?'

"I told them 'it's not how long ago you started, but how well you do.' I'm so proud of them because they were so determined to learn," she said. "They were not the most talented in the coding class but they were the most determined. They stuck with the classes when a lot of their peers dropped out," she added.

Ugwu, a mother-of three, said they practiced their pitch endlessly, and it was their effort and passion that helped them win.

"The girls really impressed a lot of people," she said. "To be honest, every progress we made was a win to me.

"They have come very far qualifying out of more than 2,000 apps submitted. They are winners in every way," she said.

"Five months ago, they didn't have access to the internet or how to write an email. They could not believe that they had the opportunity to touch the almighty computer. It's amazing."

Technovation is run by education nonprofit Iridescent and challenges girls aged 10-18 to create an app that solves problems in their communities.

"It is inspiring seeing the hard work and determination of girls around the world working to solve big challenges in their communities with smart solutions," Iridescent founder Tara Chklovski said in a statement.

The teenage girls will partner with the Nigeria's drug regulatory agency, Technovation's organizers said.

Ugwu hopes this win will encourage other young girls to tackle some of the problems Nigeria is facing.

"The next thing is to use this moment to inspire more girls. How do we leverage on this to build our nation? How do we inspire other girls to start thinking about solutions to our problems? We need to let young people know that they are the solutions to their problems, if we do that Nigeria will be better."-------------------Drones driven by AI will track illegal fishing in African waters





(CNN) Across the African continent, drones are finding innovative uses -- from monitoring displaced populations, to delivering critical medical supplies.

Moroccan technology startup ATLAN Space is developing artificial intelligence (AI) to guide autonomous drones so they can scan large areas for "environmental crimes" like illegal fishing , poaching or deforestation.

In June, ATLAN Space won the National Geographic Society's $150,000 Marine Protection Prize to implement a pilot project to combat illegal fishing in the Seychelles.

Drones will be armed with information about illegal fishing hotspots, explains Badr Idrissi, CEO and co-founder of ATLAN Space.

Once a drone detects a boat, AI will enable it to verify whether it is a cruising boat, tanker or fishing vessel. The drone will then establish whether the boat is operating inside a marine protected area, and if it is an authorized fishing vessel.

If it concludes that the activity is illegal, the drone will register the boat's location, identification number, and number of people on board and relay this information to authorities via satellite.

Currently governments employ light aircraft or coast guard vessels for this kind of surveillance.

"With artificial intelligence we are able to replace the pilot, the data analyst, transmission equipment, and with that we can reduce the cost," says Idrissi, a former account manager at Microsoft.

He adds that using drones guided by AI would relieve coast guards from their monitoring duties and allow them to focus on intercepting vessels.

According to Idrissi, ATLAN Space technology can be integrated in any type of drone. He says the operational range could reach up to 800 kilometers when using drones equipped with a combustion engine.

Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No, it's a drone powered by artificial intelligence.

Idrissi, 37 and co-founder Younes Moumen, 35, both based in Rabat, started developing the technology when they learned that illegal fishing costs coastal countries in West Africa approximately $2.3 billion every year.

"We consider ourselves a partner of government to build a sustainable solution to the issues and challenges they are facing," Idrissi says.

Drones for good

ATLAN Space is one of many startups innovating with drone technology on the continent.

In Rwanda, drones deliver vital medical supplies like blood and vaccines to remote areas.

Photos: In Dubai, Exponent Technology Services collaborated with aviation authorities on a new tracking system helping prevent drones entering no-fly zones. Exponent also trialed a food delivery by drone, flying out 900 burgers in just one day. Scroll through to discover more innovative drones around the world.

Hide Caption 1 of 20 Photos: JEM Internal Ball -- The JEM Internal Ball was dispatched to the International Space Station in 2017 to capture astronauts at work. If that sounds like vanity, it's estimated ISS occupants spend approximately 10% of their working hours photographing their findings. The JEM Internal Ball was dispatched to the International Space Station in 2017 to capture astronauts at work. If that sounds like vanity, it's estimated ISS occupants spend approximately 10% of their working hours photographing their findings. Read more. Hide Caption 2 of 20 Photos: Parrot Bebop Pro Thermal -- Parrot's thermal edition drone can provide a live feed identifying heat signatures, such as those given off by a human body, or the hot spots of a burning building. As an inspection tool manually controlled by humans, it can be used by first-responders and in disaster-relief efforts. Parrot's thermal edition drone can provide a live feed identifying heat signatures, such as those given off by a human body, or the hot spots of a burning building. As an inspection tool manually controlled by humans, it can be used by first-responders and in disaster-relief efforts. Read more. Hide Caption 3 of 20 Photos: DP Cargospeed -- A rendering of a DP Cargospeed route in Dubai with drones and trucks working within the supply chain. A rendering of a DP Cargospeed route in Dubai with drones and trucks working within the supply chain. Read more. Hide Caption 4 of 20 Photos: Ambulance Drone -- Capable of speeds of 100 kmph (62 mph), Delft Technical University's Capable of speeds of 100 kmph (62 mph), Delft Technical University's ambulance drone prototype carries a defibrillator which can be dispatched for use in the event of a heart attack. Read more. Hide Caption 5 of 20 Photos: Plan Bee -- Honeybee decline is a worrying issue, integral as they are to pollination. Industrial design major Anna Haldewang has developed a drone called Plan Bee, which mimics the action of a bee, sucking pollen from one plant and expelling it onto others to enable cross-pollination. Honeybee decline is a worrying issue, integral as they are to pollination. Industrial design major Anna Haldewang has developed a drone called Plan Bee, which mimics the action of a bee, sucking pollen from one plant and expelling it onto others to enable cross-pollination. Read more. Hide Caption 6 of 20 Photos: The Little Ripper UAV -- In January 2018 in New South Wales, Australia, the Little Ripper UAV proved vital in rescuing two men caught in rough surf. Lifeguards used the drone to drop an inflatable life preserver in minutes, which the swimmers clung on to to make it to shore.

In January 2018 in New South Wales, Australia, the Little Ripper UAV proved vital in rescuing two men caught in rough surf. Lifeguards used the drone to drop an inflatable life preserver in minutes, which the swimmers clung on to to make it to shore. Read more. Hide Caption 7 of 20 Photos: Airdog ADII -- In extreme sports, headcams are so passé. The Airdog ADII drone will follow riders on snow, water, dirt track -- wherever -- using a GPS-enabled wristband capturing aerial shots while you make your aerial moves. In extreme sports, headcams are so passé. The Airdog ADII drone will follow riders on snow, water, dirt track -- wherever -- using a GPS-enabled wristband capturing aerial shots while you make your aerial moves. Read more. Hide Caption 8 of 20 Photos: Volocopter -- The 18-rotor autonomous Volocopter was trialled in the emirate in 2017 and reportedly has a flight time of 30 minutes and cruising speed of 30 mph -- enough to get you from the airport to the Burj Al Arab with time to spare. Read more. The 18-rotor autonomous Volocopter was trialled in the emirate in 2017 and reportedly has a flight time of 30 minutes and cruising speed of 30 mph -- enough to get you from the airport to the Burj Al Arab with time to spare. Hide Caption 9 of 20 Photos: Amazon Prime Air -- Amazon has been making significant headway in drone deliveries, with the first drop in the UK occurring in Amazon has been making significant headway in drone deliveries, with the first drop in the UK occurring in 2016 . In 2017 a patent application emerged showing details of a system for safe air drop in back yards -- even involving tiny parachutes. Read more. Hide Caption 10 of 20 Photos: UPS -- Amazon isn't the only delivery company dipping into drones. UPS demonstrated a human-drone tag team system with integrated storage and launch facilities built into one of their iconic brown vans. Amazon isn't the only delivery company dipping into drones. UPS demonstrated a human-drone tag team system with integrated storage and launch facilities built into one of their iconic brown vans. Read more. Hide Caption 11 of 20 Photos: SkyDrive -- Still in development, the SkyDrive from the Cartivator Project, a Tokyo non-profit, hopes to play a key part in the 2020 Olympic Games. With three wheels and four rotors, the car-drone hybrid will hopefully be the vehicle of choice for the lucky individual tasked with lighting the Olympic flame. Still in development, the SkyDrive from the Cartivator Project, a Tokyo non-profit, hopes to play a key part in the 2020 Olympic Games. With three wheels and four rotors, the car-drone hybrid will hopefully be the vehicle of choice for the lucky individual tasked with lighting the Olympic flame. Read More. Hide Caption 12 of 20 Photos: Zipline -- Rwanda has embraced medication delivery technology and approved the world's first drone port, while manufacturer Zipline is working with the Ministry of Health to supply pockets of the country with much-needed items -- starting with blood. Rwanda has embraced medication delivery technology and approved the world's first drone port, while manufacturer Zipline is working with the Ministry of Health to supply pockets of the country with much-needed items -- starting with blood. Read more. Hide Caption 13 of 20 Photos: Flirtey -- In Virginia, 2015, an Australian-made Flirtey drone was approved to supplying a rural pop-up clinic with medication. In Virginia, 2015, an Australian-made Flirtey drone was approved to supplying a rural pop-up clinic with medication. Read more. Hide Caption 14 of 20 Photos: Hubsan X4 -- Drone racing is a big deal. It has its own series -- the Drone Racing League -- featured on ESPN, and is a fast-growing sport. The Hubsan X4 has a point-of-view camera and some nifty moves. Drone racing is a big deal. It has its own series -- the Drone Racing League -- featured on ESPN, and is a fast-growing sport. The Hubsan X4 has a point-of-view camera and some nifty moves. Read more. Hide Caption 15 of 20 Photos: Workhorse SureFly -- With eight rotors and two seats, the SureFly is one of the larger drone taxi prototypes out there. Touted as a replacement for the helicopter, its makers aim for a competitive target price of $200,000. With eight rotors and two seats, the SureFly is one of the larger drone taxi prototypes out there. Touted as a replacement for the helicopter, its makers aim for a competitive target price of $200,000. Watch more. Hide Caption 16 of 20 Photos: GimBall -- The GimBall won the $1 million first prize in the 2015 " The GimBall won the $1 million first prize in the 2015 " Drones for Good " competition. It's designed to be "collision-tolerant" and access hard-to-reach areas such as burning buildings and nuclear disaster sites. Read more. Hide Caption 17 of 20 Photos: Raining beer -- An ill-feted venture in Minnesota saw ice fishers and local brewers rebuked for using drones to deliver beer cases in 2014. Beer company Lakemaid ran afoul of the Federal Aviation Administration because flying drones for commercial purposes at 400 feet or higher was against the law. An ill-feted venture in Minnesota saw ice fishers and local brewers rebuked for using drones to deliver beer cases in 2014. Beer company Lakemaid ran afoul of the Federal Aviation Administration because flying drones for commercial purposes at 400 feet or higher was against the law. Read more. Hide Caption 18 of 20 Photos: Aerix Aerius -- Manufacturers once boasted of drones that could fit in the palm of your hand. The Aerix Aerius takes that claim to new levels with this, the world's smallest quadcopter at just 1.2-inches wide. Hide Caption 19 of 20 Photos: Blade Nano QX -- The Blade Nano QX is small by name, small in nature. Without a camera it's one for drone puritans and like Mihir Garimella's Google Science Fair-winning invention, is well equipped to avoid obstacles mid-flight. The Blade Nano QX is small by name, small in nature. Without a camera it's one for drone puritans and like Mihir Garimella's Google Science Fair-winning invention, is well equipped to avoid obstacles mid-flight. Read more. Hide Caption 20 of 20

They are also used for critical humanitarian missions, like mapping displaced people in Niger, Burkina Faso and Uganda.

In Lilongwe, Malawi, UNICEF partnered with the government to set up a testing corridor in 2017 to investigate how drones can be used for humanitarian work.

Over the past year, universities and private sector companies have used drones to map cholera outbreaks and mosquito breeding sites in the corridor.

"The idea is to see what's working in Malawi and be able to scale the solutions to a global level," UNICEF's Michael Scheibenreif tells CNN.

"Drones will substantially change our way of working in Africa," says Scheibenreif. "As a leapfrog technology they can help us to deliver goods like medicine quickly ... in places where developed transportation networks or roads do not exist."

Drone testing in Malawi.

Sky's the limit?

But drone expert and World Bank Consultant Frederick Mbuya, who has previously worked on drone mapping projects in Tanzania and Zanzibar , cautions that drones, while hugely effective in land surveying and delivery of medical supplies, are not always the silver bullet they're hyped up to be.

"Drones have a huge potential to impact Africa, and not just the rich, all areas of Africa," he tells CNN. "But a lot of work needs to be done."

As of July 2017, only 14 African countries had dedicated drone regulations, according to an African Union report

But Mbuya stresses that often these regulations are too restrictive and exorbitant licensing fees can price local startups and operators out of the market.

He adds that if drone technology is going to change Africa, Africans have to be able to enter business using the technology and profit.

Idrissi agrees that drone technology and startups should be homegrown.

"We are based in Morocco because we believe Africa has reached maturity to build solutions that can really tackle the challenges and issues that Africa is facing," he says.-------------------Fly in a WWI fighter plane





Red Hook, New York (CNN) A century after the Armistice ended World War I, pilots take to the sky in real planes from the era. Now you can experience a simulated dogfight from the cockpit.-------------------Ride along with the Hogwarts Express





Glenfinnan, Scotland, UK (CNN) Today, historic steam engines are kept alive by train enthusiasts and Harry Potter fans alike. Ride along with the Hogwarts Express as it steams through Western Scotland and over the famous Glenfinnan Viaduct.-------------------Is DNA the key to protecting Earth's tallest species?





Boulder Creek, California (CNN) Coast redwood trees have been on Earth for more than 200 million years, but it only took humans two centuries to cut down 95% of them. Here's how Save the Redwoods League and scientists are working to protect Earth's tallest species.-------------------See the devastation of the Carr Fire





Redding, California (CNN) Fly over the Carr Fire's aftermath in 360°. With 7 people dead and over 145,000 acres scorched, the Carr Fire is the deadliest of the 17 wildfires currently burning in Northern California.-------------------Race in the Ford GT supercar





Watkins Glen, New York (CNN) It's called a supercar for a reason—and Ford's packed their best technology into it. Hop in with champion racer, Joey Hand and experience the Watkins Glen International track at speeds reaching 165 mph.-------------------See the aftermath of the fires in Greece





Mati, Greece (CNN) Over 80 people were killed and countless homes destroyed in the worst fires to hit Greece in decades. See for yourself the devastating aftermath in 360°.-------------------See London's Trump protests in 360°





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------Running with France's wild horses





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 23, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 24, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 25, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 26, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 27, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 28, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 29, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for November 30, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for December 1, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------Transcripts









Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for December 2, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.-------------------House of Fates: Hungary’s controversial Holocaust museum





Budapest, Hungary — You can spot the museum from a mile off — its giant metal Star of David spectacularly suspended between two towers, just off a busy road in Budapest's rundown Eighth District.

From the outside, the $18 million House of Fates Holocaust museum is a magnificent concrete and glass structure glinting in the autumn sunshine. Inside, it’s a different story.

Though it was completed three years ago, the museum remains empty. The cafeteria tables are still wrapped in plastic and the coffee machine has never been switched on.

The building’s gleaming turnstiles are yet to welcome a single visitor as debate rages over the exhibition that will fill its vast rooms.

The conflict is part of a growing unease among some Hungarian Jews and international scholars that the right-wing government — led by strongman Prime Minister Viktor Orbán — is whitewashing the country's role in the Holocaust.

A classroom inside the House of Fates Museum.

And with Orbán currently under fire from the European Union over crackdowns on democratic institutions, his government's portrayal of Hungary's past reveals much about how it sees its future.

Government officials first floated the House of Fates back in 2013, with the aim of telling Hungary's Holocaust history primarily through the stories of child survivors and victims. The ambitious plan was to complete the museum the following year, in time for the 70th anniversary of the Holocaust in 2014.

But the project has all but ground to a halt amid concerns from leading Holocaust scholars that the House of Fates will downplay Hungary's role in the deportation and persecution of Jews.

Tourists visit Budapest’s Dohány Street Synagogue, the largest synagogue in Europe.

The destruction of Hungarian Jewry as ‘an exclusively German crime’

In 1944, the deportation of Jews in German-occupied Hungary to Auschwitz began, with hundreds of thousands sent to their deaths in the space of weeks. By the end of the Holocaust, according to Yad Vashem, some 565,000 Hungarian Jews had been murdered. Today, the country has a Jewish population of around 100,000 according to the Institute for Jewish Policy Research.

Some scholars say the House of Fates fails to adequately address the role played by Hungarian authorities and the wider society both in the lead-up to and during this deportation.

The controversy comes at a delicate time for Orbán. His populist Fidesz Party swept into power in 2010, and most recently won a landslide victory again in April this year. But his anti-migrant policies, which proved popular in Hungary, have also been blasted by the EU.

The weeping willow memorial tree has the names of Hungarian Jews killed during the Holocaust inscribed on each leaf, in the grounds of Dohány Street Synagogue.

In response, Orbán has vowed to protect Hungary’s borders from the “pro-migrant forces” of the EU. Some historians warn that Hungary’s nationalist rhetoric is also coloring its view of history.

“There is a strong trend in Hungary today to present the destruction of Hungarian Jewry during the Holocaust as an exclusively German crime and, except for a small group of Hungarian thugs, to ignore the role and responsibility of the Hungarian authorities and society,” wrote the director of Yad Vashem Libraries, Dr. Robert Rozett, in a lengthy statement about the institution's concerns.

He said that "visitors to the House of Fates are to be shown and taught that, except for a tiny, criminal and fanatic minority, the citizens of Hungary were essentially blameless for what was inflicted upon their Jewish neighbors.”

He’s not alone in thinking this. The International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington are also alarmed by the museum’s apparently “distorting” view of history.

The House of Fates museum will include an exhibition area, conference center and classrooms, according to Rabbi Slomo Koves.

A Holocaust center for ‘the young generation’

But according to Rabbi Slomo Koves, leader of the Unified Hungarian Jewish Congregation (EMIH), which owns the government-funded House of Fates, these concerns are a little premature given that the exhibition is still a work in progress.

"If there is a concern that this [the full story of Hungary's Holocaust history] has to be shown and not whitewashed, then I totally agree," said Koves, whose organization is affiliated with Chabad Lubavitch, a Hasidic movement.

"But if the concern is that it's not right now addressed, well that's just absurd because right now there's no final script [for the exhibition]," he said.

Sitting in the bright October sunlight with the impressive building looming behind him, Koves spoke at length about his vision of a Holocaust center that would leave a lasting emotional effect on "the young teenage generation today."

Rabbi Slomo Koves. Inside the House of Fates’ giant Star of David, which organizers say will light up at night once the museum is opened.

The main exhibition of children's Holocaust stories will "make up something like 30% of the museum," explained Koves. But there are also another four buildings on the site that will house other exhibitions, education centers and conference rooms, he said.

Step inside those rooms today and you find desk chairs still cloaked in bubble wrap. A long row of empty lockers stands ready to be stuffed with school bags. The sound of our lone footsteps echoes off the blank walls.

For now, Koves said they were still in the process of approaching Holocaust experts who will help finalize the exhibition. He will have more details of the content "in a few months."

The House of Fates plans to open in 2019, so he might need to hurry.

Inside the House of Fates cafeteria.

The House of Schmidt?

It's precisely this lack of detail that saw András Heisler, president of the Federation of Hungarian Jewish Communities (MAZSIHISZ), "lose patience" with the project, resigning from a House of Fates advisory board in 2014.

Heisler, who heads the largest registered Jewish group in Hungary, was all the more keen for assurances given that the museum’s concept came from government-appointed historian Dr. Maria Schmidt.

“We don’t trust her,” Heisler said matter-of-factly, adding that Schmidt had “painted a nice picture” of what the museum would look like but remained frustratingly elusive on “its message.”

András Heisler, President of Mazsihisz. The grand hall of Mazsihisz in Budapest.

Schmidt is a dividing figure in Hungary. Her other government-funded museum, the House of Terror, focuses on communist and fascist regimes in Hungary and regularly has tourists queuing around the block. Critics say that, much like the House of Fates proposal, the museum does not adequately address Hungary’s role in the Holocaust.

CNN contacted Schmidt, who declined to comment. But in an article published on the news site Mandiner in 2014, Schmidt wrote that the House of Fates message was about a “story of love between Hungarian Jews and non-Jews,” and that as a result of this love there was still a large Jewish community living in Hungary today.

Visitors at the weeping willow memorial, in the grounds of Dohány Street Synagogue.

The demonization of George Soros

Outside museum walls, many of the Hungarian Jews that CNN spoke to said physical anti-Semitic attacks were rare, that they felt safe in their day-to-day life.

But they also said some government policies had incited anti-Semitic sentiments in society — such as the “Stop Soros” law, named after the Hungarian-American billionaire philanthropist George Soros, which banned nongovernmental organizations from assisting migrants.

Heisler said the government's advertisements of a smiling Soros, who is Jewish, had led to an increase in anti-Semitic comments on social media. Soros billboards were also targeted with anti-Semitic graffiti.

A souvenir store at Dohány Street Synagogue. Lucy Tiborne Braun, inside her gift shop at the same synagogue.

One of Soros’ most vocal critics is Schmidt. In a scathing blog post published last year, Schmidt likened Soros to a “wicked but hugely smart” villain in a James Bond film. Among her many criticisms was that Soros and his network represented the “dismantling [of] national sovereignty.”

The government has also portrayed Soros as the “main machinator” of a flow of migrants who would “destroy the Christian, traditional identity and ethnic homogeneity of the continent” and “weaken the nation state,” said Bulcsú Hunyadi, a senior analyst at Budapest think tank Political Capital.

He said there was a “connection between nationalism and anti-Semitism” in Hungary that dates back centuries.

Nationalism wasn’t inherently anti-Semitic, said Hunyadi. But he explained that the government has pushed certain lines — such as the “Stop Soros” campaign and the portrayal of Hungary during WWII as the passive victim of Nazi aggression — that have “anti-Semitic echoes.”

The Shoes on the Danube Bank memorial commemorates Jews who were lined up along the river and shot by Arrow Cross militiamen during World War Two. Many of the victims were ordered to take off their shoes before being killed.

Orbán’s multi-sided relationship with Hungary’s Jews

Orbán’s relationship with Hungary’s Jewish community is difficult to pin down. Heisler said his organization had a "good" relationship with Orbán, praising the government's declared zero-tolerance on anti-Semitism, close relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and millions of dollars invested in synagogues, Jewish cemeteries and hospitals.

"But there is another side," he said, "and that is commemoration policy."

"With the question of (Hungarian) responsibility during the Second World War — all our conflict is in this field," he said.

There’s the speech Orbán gave last year in which he described former Hungarian leader Miklós Horthy, whose government concluded an alliance with Nazi Germany, as an "exceptional statesman." Heisler — like many Hungarian Jews that CNN spoke to — was not impressed.

The German Occupation Memorial in Budapest, which the government says honors victims of Hungary’s occupation by the Nazis.

Orbán’s not a rogue politician in this respect. According to Hunyadi, "leading intellectuals close to Fidesz repeatedly make statements that relativize the role of Hungary, or specific individuals, in the Holocaust, or excuse them."

Then there’s the German Occupation Memorial erected in 2014, which features the Archangel Gabriel being attacked by an eagle — something critics have said falsely depicts Hungary as the passive victim of Nazi occupation.

Walk past the statue in Budapest's Liberty Square today, and you'll find a permanent protest of Holocaust memorabilia — photos, suitcases, candles — clustered in front.

On Hungary's role in the Holocaust, government spokesman Zoltán Kovács is emphatic: "Until March 19, 1944, Hungary, in the face of all the unjustifiable legal and other measures on behalf of the Hungarian state, was still a safe haven for Jews. Period," he told CNN.

"And it was (with) the coming of the Germans, the German occupation, that the Holocaust happened in this country."

An empty exhibition room at the House of Fates museum.

Kovács, who is also a historian, added that this did not diminish "the responsibility of the Hungarian authorities who were cooperating or were instigators" in the Holocaust.

"But what I mention is that the losing of sovereignty is a thing that you cannot disregard."

For now, Kovács said the House of Fates will wait until there is a "consensus" on the exhibition before opening.

But with cobwebs starting to appear inside the sparse building that is to be the House of Fates, how long that will be is anyone's guess.-------------------UK's Labour will seek no confidence vote in May if Brexit bill fails





If the government survives a vote of no confidence, Labour could begin campaigning for a second referendum on remaining in the European Union, the shadow Brexit secretary Keir Starmer said Sunday.

"It seems to me that if the Prime Minister has lost a vote of that sort of significance, then there has to be a question of confidence in her government," Starmer told Sky News , referring to the December 11 vote scheduled in the House of Commons for May's Brexit bill.

Now back from G20 talks, May has just one week to convince dissenting members of Parliament to pass the bill, a feat the country's pro-Brexit Environment Secretary Michael Gove concedes will be "challenging."

Gove told the BBC Sunday that if ministers don't pass the bill "the alternatives are no deal or no Brexit."

The likelihood of rejection could increase Monday if Labour is successful in forcing May to reveal the full legal advice she sought before agreeing the deal with European leaders last month

All indications are that the bill will be defeated, something that could be made more likely Monday if Labour is successful in forcing May to reveal the full legal advice she sought before agreeing the deal with European leaders last month

The UK's attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, is due to brief lawmakers on the matter Monday, but Downing Street is seeking to avoid publishing the full advice, in defiance of a Commons vote last month obliging it to do so. The government argues Cox's briefing will be sufficient, but Starmer said "if they don't produce it tomorrow then we will start contempt proceedings, and this will be a collision course between the government and Parliament."

"I accept that it's exceptional to have that disclosed. It has happened in the past, but it is exceptional," he added. "That's why we had a debate in parliament, to say: is this the sort of case where it's so exceptional that it should be disclosed?"

JUST WATCHED E.U. Leaders back Brexit deal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH E.U. Leaders back Brexit deal 08:07

This will put May in a difficult position as she attempts to lobby Conservative Party votes for her bill, while potentially having to reveal compromises over the so-called Northern Ireland "backstop" position which could doom it in the eyes of pro-Brexit MPs.

The backstop is designed to prevent a hard border between EU member the Republic of Ireland, and Brexiting Northern Ireland -- which many fear could lead to a return to violence in the region. Under the agreement reached with Brussels , failure to reach an alternate deal defaults to a backstop in the form of a "single customs territory between the (European) Union and the United Kingdom."

Such a situation would essentially leave the UK both in and out of the EU, in line with all EU regulations and rules but unable to influence them. It would also block the most ambitious post-Brexit policies of hardliners in May's Party, many of whom see such a deal as anathema to the 2016 vote on leaving the EU.

As if the Northern Ireland issue wasn't bad enough for May's chances, the government was also forced to admit last week that the deal will be bad for the UK's economy . According to assessments by Downing Street and the Bank of England, under any scenario, leaving the European Union will make Britain poorer than staying in.

In the increasingly likely event therefore that May loses next week's vote, Labour will almost certainly seize on it as an opportunity to bring down her government -- which is currently propped up by an unsteady alliance with the right-wing Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), that is itself expected to vote against the deal.

"Obviously, it'll depend on what actually happens in nine days. It depends on what the response is. But if she's lost a vote of this significance after two years of negotiation, then it is right that there should be a general election because, but for the Fixed-term Parliaments Act, the convention was always, if a government loses what's called a confidence vote -- something of such significance -- then that government has to go," Starmer said.

JUST WATCHED UK, Spain reach an agreement over Gibraltar Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH UK, Spain reach an agreement over Gibraltar 00:59

Under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, the government in theory has a five-year term, but a vote of no confidence or a vote by two thirds of the Commons can still trigger a general election at any time, making it exceedingly difficult for the government of the day to stave off an election should lawmakers wish to go to the voters.

"Obviously, if that doesn't happen, we need to press on to other options such as a public vote because, having gone through the first two options, we would need to look at what happens then," Starmer said.

Such a situation, while it would ramp up pressure on May's government, would likely be preferable to the Prime Minister, who has previously attempted to paint Labour as untrustworthy on Brexit and allow her to shore up support among Euroskeptic voters across the political spectrum.-------------------Weekend in sport: Arsenal, Liverpool triumph in thrilling EPL derbies; no fury in controversial boxing draw; Kiwis stroll to rugby win





(CNN) Arsenal and Liverpool play out thrilling wins against biggest rivals; Fury remarkably un-furious after controversial draw in LA; Kiwis romp to Sevens title; Rahm wins Tiger's year-end jamboree in the Caribbean; Copa confusion continues. This is your Monday sporting recap .

Bragging rights for the Gunners, Reds

Alexandre Lacazette of Arsenal celebrates during the Premier League match with Tottenham Hotspur at Emirates Stadium.

For the last couple of years the balance of power in North London has shifted and the derby is something Spurs fans have come to look forward to, rather than approach with dread. But old habits die hard.

The 4-2 home win for Arsenal was the kind of pulsating match that is the ultimate advertisement for the Premier League and at the end of the 90-plus minutes the Gunners find themselves in familiar territory -- in fourth place, and, crucially, ahead of Spurs.

Arsenal started with their tails up and capitalized early through Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's 10th minute penalty, but a swift reply from Eric Dier, and an even swifter penalty from Harry Kane to take the lead looked to have brought Spurs' men out of their funk. They played well up to and past the half-time whistle but a second from Arsenal's Gabonese striker -- who's absolutely on fire this season -- before the hour, followed up by strikes from substitute Alexandre Lacazette and Lucas Torriera, restored Arsenal to winning ways over its biggest rival.

Dele Alli of Spurs applauds fans during the match.

Up north another ancient rivalry played out with frantic scenes as Liverpool overcame Everton 1-0 thanks to a late, late injury time winner from substitute Divock Origi, who scored a freak goal after a Virgil van Dijk volley bounced off Everton keeper Jordan Pickford's gloves before bouncing off the bar and allowing Origi, who had only been on the pitch for 10 minutes, to nod in. The Kop erupted, Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp erupted and Liverpool have another famous win over the blue half of Merseyside.

Liverpool's Divock Origi celebrates after scoring his team's only goal.

On the other side of London, Chelsea played out its own derby against crosstown rivals Fulham, with Maurizio Sarri's men proving too much of a handful for former manager Claudio Ranieri -- who was brought down to earth with a bump after last week's first win -- and the Cottagers, who lost 2-0 at Stamford Bridge.

Chelsea's Spanish striker Pedro celebrates.

Fury keeps cool after controversial draw

Tyson Fury punches Deontay Wilder in the fifth round.

Who says draws can't be exciting?

Tyson Fury said he genuinely thought he'd gotten the better of Deontay Wilder when the final bell went for their WBC title fight, and he wasn't the only one -- but the 12-round matchup was judged a draw. The fight was an absolute belter (no pun intended), a true return to the days of glamor heavyweight ties, which saw Fury knocked down twice, including in the dying seconds of the 12th round, Wilder bloodied and swollen and a split draw that summed up the wild mood of the night.

Even though the draw allowed Wilder to retain the title, Fury was sanguine.

"I enjoyed every second of it," Fury said after the fight at LA's Staples Center. "I'm not going to sit here and complain all night and scream robbery. I thought I won the fight, I'll leave the audience to decide what they thought. But listen: two men tried their hardest, tried our guts out, trained for 10 weeks, away from their families."

Deontay Wilder knocks Tyson Fury down during the 12th round to earn the draw and retain his belt.

It's been a hell of a journey for the Mancunian since unlikely rise to heavyweight champ, ending Wladimir Klitschko's ten-year reign.

Two years ago, Fury bought a Ferrari, with the intention to drive it at high speed off a bridge. That he twice got up off the canvas in the WBA heavyweight title fight Saturday might be one of the clumsier metaphors out there for the massive, 30-year-old Brit, but still it speaks volumes about his determination. His post-match comments say equally as much about his class and sportsmanship.

A rematch looks on the cards, with both fighters having one eye on a likely chance at Anthony Joshua and his WBA, WBO and IBF straps.

Kiwis prove their mettle in Dubai

New Zealand players celebrate during the final of the Men's Sevens World Rugby Dubai Series Cup.

New Zealand proves once again that it doesn't really matter how many men are on the pitch -- put a rugby ball in there somewhere and they'll quickly prove that they're the best there is. This time there were seven, and the USA played the part of unwitting punching bag.

The occasion being the opening tournament of the men's World Rugby Sevens Series in Dubai, where the Eagles were soundly beaten, 21-5.

New Zealand's Luke Masirewa is tackled by USA's Ben Pinkelman.

The victory, New Zealand's first in Dubai since 2009, backed up July's World Cup win in San Francisco. The omens for this season are good, too, as for the past three seasons the winner of the season's first tournament has also gone on to lift the overall title.

It's not New Zealand's favored code but with the added incentive of Olympic qualification on the line in this year's tournament, the win couldn't have come at a better time for this lesser-known All Black squad.

Tiger's year-end bonanza ends well for Rahm

Jon Rahm of Spain tees off on the fourth hole during the final round of the Hero World Challenge at Albany, Bahamas.

Jon Rahm took advantage of the balmy Caribbean weather to stroll to a 7-under 65 on Sunday for a four-shot victory in the Hero World Challenge, Tiger Woods' year-end charity bash in Nassau.

Starting the day even with Tony Finau and Henrik Stenson, Rahm held his nerve as his challengers fell away, capping out a great end to what is only his second year as a pro.

Hearkening back to his Ryder Cup victory over Woods earlier in the year, the Spaniard said that playing with the legend was a career highlight.

Rahm walks to the 15th fairway during the final round on Sunday.

"That Sunday with Tiger is still the most emotionally, most important moment of my golf career," he said. "It means so much to play against Tiger. A couple months later, to win his event, it's really special."

Woods himself -- complaining of ankle trouble just months after ridding himself of the back pain that has plagued his form over the last couple of years -- ended the weekend with a 1-over 73 to finish 17th, one from the bottom of the 18-man field. He finished 19 shots behind the 24-year-old Rahm.

"Overall, it was a long week, but one that I hope the players enjoyed," Woods said.

Libertadores fate decided -- or is it?

The Boca Juniors team bus leaves the hotel on the way to the Monumental stadium in Buenos Aires on November 24 to play the second leg match before it was attacked by River Plate fans.

It's back on. Wait. No, it's not. Is it?

The ongoing saga of the Copa Libertadores continues, even after Spain agreed to host it at the Bernabeu in Madrid.

River Plate has objected to playing the second, rescheduled leg of the tournament final in Spain after it was moved from its El Monumental stadium following crowd trouble, calling it "incomprehensible" that South America's footballing centerpiece be played 6,000 miles away from home.

Playing the second leg in Spain "distorts the competition" and "denied unjustifiably" the home fans who will miss their chance to see the Buenos Aires derby -- known as the Superclasico -- writ large as the Copa final.

Boca Juniors' Pablo Perez and Gonzalo Lamardo are seen on the field of the Monumental stadium in Buenos Aires with their eyes covered after authorities postponed the all-Argentine Copa Libertadores final.

The match was initially set to take place on November 24 but was canceled after rioting River Plate fans attacked the Boca Juniors team bus , throwing projectiles, smashing windows and injuring several players -- including the Boca Juniors captain Pablo Pérez and midfielder Gonzalo Lamardo. It was again postponed the following day, leaving fans and players alike wondering if, and when it would ever happen.

The wait continues.-------------------Advent traditions around the world





(CNN) — Wreaths, candles and calendars. These are sure signs of Advent for many Christian groups around the world.

The word Advent derives from the Latin adventus , which means an arrival or visit.

Advent is the beginning of the spiritual year for these churches, and it's observed the four Sundays before Christmas Day . In 2018, Advent starts December 2. Each Sunday has a different spiritual theme and often involves the ceremonial lighting of an Advent candle in anticipation of Christmas and the birth of Jesus.

Eastern Orthodox churches mark the lead-up to Christmas with a Nativity Fast , which starts on November 15.

As with many aspects of any religion, customs and practices vary from place to place.

Here are some Advent and general Christmas traditions in various countries around the world. We're also including a possible house of worship to visit and a hotel to consider for your stay if you decide to travel to these places to celebrate Advent:

Austria

Austria is the birthplace of one of the most beloved Christmas hymns, "Silent Night." The hymn is called "Stille Nacht" in German (the native language of Austrians), and it was penned during the Christmas of 1818, according to the website German-way

The English version of the hymn we sing today has some variation from the original, but anyone visiting Austria who happens to catch a performance should immediately recognize the soothing sound.

The picturesque city of Salzburg, from "The Sound of Music" fame, has numerous musical performances of the sacred hymn.

House of worship: Salzburg Cathedral is an iconic symbol of this Austrian city. Built in the same location as two previous churches, the foundation for the current Baroque structure with its two commanding towers was laid in 1641. (Kapitelplatz 2, PO Box 62, 5010 Salzburg, Austria; +43 662 65901 515 )

Where to stay: The Hôtel Bristol Salzburg evokes the splendor and elegance of the Austro-Hungarian empire and is near tourist attractions such as Mirabell Palace. (Makartplatz 4, 5020 Salzburg, Austria; +43 662 8735570)

China

St Ignatius Cathedral reopened in December 2017 after a two-year renovation. Stringer/Imaginechina/AP

China might not immediately come to mind when you think of Advent, but roughly 5% of the population of 1.38 billion is Christian.

Chinese Christians light up their homes with colorful paper lanterns during Advent, and you might find red paper pagodas cut out and placed in windows. They follow many of the traditions that were brought by Western missionaries.

For shoppers, Christmas markets are starting to become more popular in Shanghai, which has had more historical exposure to Western influence than most of the country.

House of worship: In Shanghai, In Shanghai, St. Ignatius Cathedral is modeled on Western-style architecture and was built in 1906. It was damaged during China's Cultural Revolution, but it has since been restored. In Shanghai, it's called Xujiahui Catholic Church (No.156 Puxi Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai 200000, China)

Where to stay: The The Fairmont Peace Hotel is an Art Deco wonder and reminder of Shanghai in the 1930s. It's on the famed Bund, home to some of the city's best shopping. You'll also find the acclaimed Jazz Bar here. (20 Nanjing Road East, Shanghai, China 200002; + 86 21 6138 6888)

Croatia

About 86% of the people in this Balkan Peninsula country are Roman Catholic, and Advent is a big part of the religious life here. For some Croatians, preparations for Christmas actually begin before Advent on November 25, which is Sveta Kata (St. Catherine's Day).

Visitors to the capital, Zagreb , will find a city in full throes of Advent and Christmas spirit in December, with wooden stalls selling handcrafted souvenirs, roasted chestnuts and mulled wine. If you're there on Christmas Eve, you can join the tradition of eating "bakalar" (a type of dried cod).

House of worship: Zagreb Cathedral of the Assumption is the tallest building in Croatia, and this neo-Gothic structure holds what is considered one of the most splendid organs in the world. (10000 Zagreb, Croatia; +385 1 481 4727)

Where to stay: Hotel Jägerhorn goes back to 1827, making it the oldest standing hotel in Zagreb. But while you're soaking in the history, your rooms will be decidedly 21st-century comfortable. (Ilica 14, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia; +385 1 4833 877)





Germany

Families across Germany will set up an Advent wreath with four candles, one for each week of Advent. They may gather around the wreath each Sunday to sing carols and light another candle.

Stollen , which is similar to fruitcake, is one of the oldest Christmas treat traditions in Germany. And Advent hosts may serve cookies that are spread around their wreaths.

Munich, with its famed Christmas markets, Advent concerts and nearby snow-capped mountains, is a wonderful city to visit this time of year.

House of worship: Asam Church is far from Munich's largest, but it might be its most ornate. One reason for its size -- two brothers built it originally as a private chapel. Another plus: The tiny Baroque masterpiece might be less crowded with fellow tourists. (Sendlinger Str. 32, 80331 Munich, Germany; +49 89 2368 7989)

Where to stay: Set in a 19th-century house, each room at Set in a 19th-century house, each room at Hotel Opera has a distinctive boutique look, and its location is ideal for shopping, museums and visiting Christmas markets. (St.-Anna-Strasse 10, 80538 München, Germany; +49 89 2104940)

Hungary

Beiglis are a traditional Hungarian treat. Shutterstock

These are a daily Mass held every dawn from the first Sunday of Advent to the first day of Christmas. You may hear it called the Angelic Mass or Golden Mass.

A classic Advent treat in Hungary is the beigli . It's a rolled crust traditionally filled with poppy seeds or walnuts. You can find them in shops and bakeries.

Hungarians are a music-loving people, and various Christmas concerts are held around the capital of Budapest and other cities and towns.

House of worship: St. Stephen's Basilica is the largest church in Budapest and a relative newcomer by European historical standards, consecrated in 1905 after decades of construction. In addition to the impressive neoclassical architecture, the views from the top are reportedly spectacular. (Szent Istvan ter 1, Pest, Budapest 1051, Hungary)

Where to stay: The The Four Seasons Hotel Gresham Palace offers five-star luxury in a perfect location (facing the Danube at the foot of the Chain Bridge), and the building itself is an art nouveau stunner. (Szechenyi Istvan ter 5 - 6, Budapest 1051 Hungary; +36 1 268 6000)

Mexico

Advent in Mexico brings the religious ceremonies known as Las Posadas (Spanish for "The Inns.") This nine-day celebration that marks the journey of Mary and Joseph is held from December 16 to 24.

Each evening in cities and villages across Mexico, a child dressed as an angel leads a processional, usually made up of children. They go to selected homes, where they are denied entry but often given refreshments.

This custom is followed in some parts of the United States and Latin America , too. Mexico City offers you a chance to enjoy a Mexican Christmas in its culture-filled capital.

House of worship: Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral is the largest cathedral in Latin America. Construction on it took more than two centuries, so you'll see a mix of architectural styles as a result. (Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral, Plaza de la Constitución, Centro, Mexico City, Mexico, +52 55 5510 0440)

Where to stay: The 36 rooms of the The 36 rooms of the Hotel Carlota have a boutique, modernist flair with artwork from the country. It's in the Cuauhtémoc neighborhood, named after an Aztec leader and considered the historical and cultural heart of the capital. (Río Amazonas 73, Col. Renacimiento, Cuauhtémoc, 06500 Ciudad de México, CDMX, Mexico; +52 55 5511 6300)

Poland

For deeply Catholic Poland, Advent brings prayer, fasting and spiritual preparation for Christmas, according to the Polish Women's Alliance of America. People stay inside during the long, dark evenings making decorations for the Christmas tree and handmade gifts, baking Christmas cookies, and preparing other delicacies for the upcoming holidays.

Poles attend early-morning Masses called roraty . It's still dark out when they start. Attendees light candles during Mass, symbolizing the coming light of day and salvation.

People also set up booths in village and city squares , decorated in themes of Christmas, where they will pass out candy, little gifts and cards.

Krakow marks the first Sunday of Advent by decorating beautiful Rynek Square square with lights, boughs and garlands.

House of worship: Construction of Construction of St. Mary's Basilica in Krakow started in the late 1200s, and it was consecrated in 1320. The stunning basilica has undergone numerous renovations since then. Its asymmetrical towers make a memorable sight. (Plac Mariacki 5, 31-042 Kraków, Poland; +48 12 422 05 21)

Place to stay: If you're looking for a special place to stay, consider the If you're looking for a special place to stay, consider the Hotel Copernicus , where you can enjoy an Old World atmosphere with modern conveniences. It has a spa to help you relax after a busy day of sightseeing. (Kanonicza 16, 31-001 Kraków, Poland; +48 12 424 34 00)

United Kingdom

While many Advent and Christmas traditions go back centuries in the United Kingdom, Christingles is a relatively new observance here. It started with the Moravians in 1740s Germany, but it wasn't celebrated in the UK until the late 1960s.

The word can mean both a symbolic item and a service. You make Christingles from an orange, which you decorate with a candle, red tape and sweets.

The Christingles service might involve prayers, readings and singing. It also serves as a fundraiser for children's charities. It can be held at the start of Advent all the way to Candlemas, but Christmas Eve is a popular time to hold a service.

House of worship: Salisbury Cathedral is one of the finest Gothic cathedrals in the United Kingdom and has Britain's tallest spire. Its foundation stones were laid in 1220. If you time your visit, you might can attend one of the Anglican cathedral's Advent services . (6 The Close, Salisbury SP1 2EJ, UK; +44 1722 555120)-------------------France considers 'all options' to quell violent protests





Paris (CNN) The French government is considering "all options" to control protests against rising fuel prices that have turned violent in Paris over the last three weeks, a spokesman said Sunday.

Speaking on France's Europe 1 radio, spokesman Benjamin Griveaux said the government is thinking about steps to prevent "serious outbursts of violence," including introducing a state of emergency.

More than 400 people were arrested and 133 injured in Paris on Saturday in clashes between police and protesters with the "gilets jaune" or "yellow vest" movement, who are protesting rising gas prices and taxes on polluting forms of transport.

An estimated 36,000 people demonstrated in Saturday's protests across the country, marking the third consecutive week of such demonstrations, according to the French Interior Ministry. About 53,000 participated last week and about 113,000 the week before.

Griveaux said that between 1,000 and 1,500 people joined Saturday's demonstrations "only to fight with the police, to break and loot." He added that those protesters "have nothing to do with the yellow vests."

Read More

Footage shared by French police on Saturday showed a few demonstrators striking a police vehicle and smashing its windshield. Other videos captured burning cars and police firing tear gas to disperse protesters. Protesters and riot police clash during the "yellow vest" protests in Paris on December 1. French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner had mentioned a state of emergency, Griveaux said. Justice Minister Nicole Belloubet told reporters at a Sunday press conference those involved in Saturday's protests would face "a very firm response from the criminal justice system." Some will be brought up for trial as soon as Monday, according to the minister. Asked about the possibility of a state of emergency, Belloubet said, "I am not sure we have reached that stage quite yet. I think there are other options." French President Emmanuel Macron held an emergency meeting with top officials on Sunday just hours after returning from the G20 summit in Argentina. In a statement, Macron paid tribute to law enforcement and rescue teams who "showed unrelenting bravery throughout the day and evening." Macron also "stressed the importance of judicial follow-up so that none of the acts committed remains unpunished," the statement added. Tensions rising Rising fuel prices are largely attributed to a leap in the wholesale price of oil worldwide. But the protests have evolved into a broader demonstration against Macron, his government, and tensions between the metropolitan elite and rural poor. Demonstrators with the "gilets jaunes" or "yellow vest" movement call for the French President Emmanuel Macron to resign at a demonstration last month. Macron has borne the brunt of the demonstrators' anger instead of OPEC for reducing oil production, or the US for imposing tariffs on Iran, which crippled oil exports. Many protesters are angry with Macron for extending the environmental policies that were first implemented by former President François Hollande. The violent protests and vandalism in Paris have "absolutely nothing to do with the peaceful demonstrations of a legitimate unhappiness or discontent," Macron said on Saturday at a news conference in Buenos Aires, where he was attending the G20 summit. Paris demonstrations could put Macron's future in jeopardy "No cause justifies that security forces are attacked, shops pillaged, public or private buildings set on fire, pedestrians or journalists threatened or that the Arc de Triomphe is sullied," Macron said. Those responsible will be identified and taken to court, he added. Upon his return to Paris on Sunday, Macron immediately visited the capital's Arc de Triomphe -- a flashpoint in Saturday's violent protests -- to "take stock of the damage" and pay tribute to the tomb of the unknown soldier at its base, CNN affiliate BFMTV reported. He also met with police officers and firefighters who worked to contain the protests, BFMTV said.-------------------Hundreds arrested in third weekend of Paris protests against rising fuel prices





Paris (CNN) More than 200 people were arrested and dozens were injured in Paris on Saturday after clashes erupted between police and protesters, according to a police spokesman.

The spokesman told CNN at least 92 people had been injured, including 14 police officers, after protesters with the "gilets jaune" or "yellow vest" movement took to the streets to demonstrate against rising gas prices and taxes on polluting forms of transport.

Saturday's protests marked the third consecutive week of such demonstrations, although with an estimated 36,500 participants across the country they were smaller than those in weeks past, according to the French Interior Ministry.

Last week about 53,000 participated, and there were about 113,000 the week before.

French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner said on Twitter Saturday that 1,500 "troublemakers" had infiltrated a group of about 200 peaceful protesters and had "come to fight" near the Champs Elysées in Paris.

Read More

Wow it just got scary real quick. Police fired tear gas into Place Victor Hugo the mass of protestors came my way. They built a new barricade just 50m from my hotel, which I am now back in. pic.twitter.com/vKxUWnJHHU — James Larson (@jamesmlarson) December 1, 2018 Footage shared by French police showed a few demonstrators striking a police vehicle and smashing its windshield. Other videos captured burning cars and police firing tear gas to disperse protesters. Rising fuel prices are largely attributed to a leap in the wholesale price of oil. Brent crude oil -- a benchmark for worldwide oil purchases -- increased by more than 20% in the first half of the year, from around $60 a barrel to $86.07 in early October. But the protests have evolved into a broader demonstration against French President Emmanuel Macron, his government and tensions between the metropolitan elite and rural poor. Macron has borne the brunt of the demonstrators' anger instead of OPEC for reducing oil production, or the US for imposing tariffs on Iran, which crippled oil exports. A demonstrator leaves as water cannons evacuate the Place de l'Etoile on Saturday, December 1, in Paris. Many protesters are angry with Macron for extending the environmental policies that were first implemented by former President François Hollande. The violent protests and vandalism in Paris have "absolutely nothing to do with the peaceful demonstrations of a legitimate unhappiness or discontent," said Macron at a news conference in Buenos Aires, where he's attending the G20 summit. "No cause justifies that security forces are attacked, shops pillaged, public or private buildings set on fire, pedestrians or journalists threatened or that the Arc de Triomphe is sullied," Macron said. Those responsible will be identified and taken to court, he added. Macron will be meeting with the French prime minister and the minister of the interior when he returns to Paris.-------------------British boxer sends message of support to bullied Syrian refugee





Huddersfield, England (CNN) When boxer Fes Batista saw the video of a teenage Syrian refugee being taunted and pushed to the ground at a school in northern England as other students looked on, it brought back a flood of painful memories.

The 28-year-old, whose real name is Mohammed Faisal but is known by his nickname, knows only too well the impact bullying can have. He said he came "within millimeters" of taking his own life after being taunted over his Asian background while at college.

The fact that the Syrian boy, identified by his family's lawyer only as Jamal, was bullied in Batista's own West Yorkshire hometown of Huddersfield made the video more personal to him. It also impelled Batista to offer any help he could.

"I was absolutely devastated for him and it made me absolutely determined to reach out to him at all costs," he said.

Batista, who is trained and managed by American boxing legend Roy Jones Jr., splits his time between Huddersfield, a multicultural town northeast of Manchester, and Pensacola, Florida. He aspires to a world championship title and is living life to the fullest.

But things could have been very different. He never suffered racist abuse growing up in Huddersfield, he said, but when he went to university in another, less diverse town in northern England his experience of racially motivated bullying was horrific.

"They openly called me a terrorist, openly threw stuff at me, one girl spat in my face -- I remember that," he said. "I was boxing at the time -- it doesn't matter how tough you are, these things crush you from the inside. You can't clench your fist and say 'I'm going to fight you' -- it's something way more powerful."

Batista credits hearing a Lady Gaga song as he was preparing to take his own life with restoring his will to live. Now, he speaks in local schools against bullying and works with top-flight soccer club Huddersfield Town to spread an inclusive message.

The boxer hopes that hearing how he turned his life around and realized his dream of becoming a professional boxer will help Jamal and other young people like him. He's reached out to Jamal's family and hopes he may get to offer support in person.

"I want to send that message to him and to other people who are suffering bullying and are rock bottom," he said. "I can feel the pain he felt. These people most likely haven't been there. I've physically been where he's been."

Huddersfield, pictured in August, lies between Manchester and Leeds in northern England.

Outrage and support

The incident from October at Almondbury Community School has shocked people in Huddersfield and prompted concern that an undercurrent of racism might be rearing its head in the community.

But it has also led to a surge of community support for the 15-year-old boy and his 14-year-old sister, who was also bullied at the school, according to the family's lawyer, London-based Mohammed Akunjee.

Supporters rallied outside the school on Thursday and a GoFundMe page set up to help the family had received more than £155,000 (about $197,000) in donations by Saturday, surpassing its target.

"Jamal and his family are doing well," Mohammed Tahir, the founder of the GoFundMe account said Saturday on Twitter . "I have passed along your heartfelt messages to them and they are very touched by your kind words and welcoming approach."

Police community support officers walk past Almondbury Community School in Huddersfield on Wednesday.

Speaking at the G20 summit in Argentina, UK Prime Minister Theresa May said what the boy had gone through was "absolutely terrible" but that the public response shows that the British are a "welcoming people."

The headteacher of Almondbury Community School, Trevor Bowen, said in a statement Friday that the school, which describes itself on its website as "inclusive," was treating the matter with the "utmost seriousness" and that students' safety was paramount.

"We can confirm that, contrary to statements you may have seen, the school has been working with the police and the local authority for several weeks in relation to the recent incidents," he said. "Be assured that any issues are dealt with quickly. We do not tolerate unacceptable behaviour of any sort in our school."

West Yorkshire Police say a 16-year-old male suspect has been interviewed about the October 25 incident and will appear in a youth court.

Kirklees Council, the local authority which covers Huddersfield, called the alleged bullying incidents "very serious matters" and that it was working closely with the school and police. "Our shared priority is the safety and welfare of all students," a spokesman said.

Impact on the boy's family

Jamal and his family, who are among a number of Syrian refugees in Huddersfield, are said to be considering using the donated funds to move elsewhere in Britain.

They had fled from Homs in war-torn Syria to Lebanon, said Akunjee, before being settled in Huddersfield under a UN program in 2016.

That's when Sleman Shwaish, a Syrian refugee who himself came to Britain in 2012, first got to know the family, as he acted as an interpreter for them. Since then, the relationship has developed into friendship, said Shwaish, who now works as a refugee service coordinator.

Sleman Shwaish, a Syrian who came to Britain as a refugee, now works with refugee families in Huddersfield.

The alleged incidents at the school and subsequent furor have had a big impact, he told CNN. "I cannot describe how the family are feeling now, they cannot think straight. It's so difficult to deal with," he said.

The boy told Shwaish he couldn't stop thinking about what happened. "He would say sometimes, 'I was just having a nightmare and I cried and I didn't want to show my dad I'm crying," said Shwaish.

The boy and his father made a brief appearance as a small group of supporters gathered outside the school on Thursday.

"Thanks for everything," the teenager told them as he left. CNN reached out to the boy's family but they declined to be interviewed.

JUST WATCHED Syrian refugees attacked at UK school Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Syrian refugees attacked at UK school 02:24

Shwaish's own experience in Huddersfield has been very positive, he said. He suffered racial abuse in other British towns when he first arrived as a refugee from northeastern Syria, including having eggs thrown at his window, but that changed when he came to Huddersfield.

"For me it was the best of places in the UK," he said, adding that he chose it because of its reputation as a multicultural town with a good university.

"Since the day I arrived in Huddersfield, I've been so welcome. A lot of people showed me support, they helped me with so many things I needed."

Another Syrian refugee in the town, Reda Alsous, told CNN of receiving a warm welcome after arriving in Huddersfield from Damascus nearly five years ago. He now works for Amazon and in his sister's cheese factory while continuing his studies.

"Since I came here I lived with my family in an area full of English people called Crosland Moor and have lots of English and international friends," he said.

A diverse community

Huddersfield, which lies between Leeds and Manchester, is the largest urban area in the Kirklees borough. Grand Victorian architecture in the town center signals the area's history as a major manufacturing center, particularly for textiles.

That history and the town's bustling university have contributed to the ethnic and cultural diversity of the area. As of January 2017, more than a quarter of schoolchildren across Kirklees were of Asian or British Asian origin.

Huddersfield is a university town with a history as a regional manufacturing center.

Waseem Riaz, of the Kirklees Faith Network, an independent group working for community cohesion, said the overall picture of race and faith relations in Kirklees today is very good compared with past decades, with race "not really an issue" for children.

"A lot of schools have done a lot of work over the last 15 or 20 years to break down those barriers," he said. "We've moved a long way from the 1960s and 1970s, where if you were a black or Asian person walking on the street you had to be very careful that someone didn't give you a punch in the face."

But he does fear that social media is helping to promote far-right views which could tap into some roots of prejudice.

"The far-right have been active in Kirklees for the past 50 years under different political names," he said. "Now they are using social media and their rhetoric obviously appeals to a tiny minority. But by and large, the picture is very positive."

Huddersfield has also been impacted by recent high-profile trials involving men of Asian origin grooming vulnerable white girls for sex, which has led to an unfortunate focus by national media on community division, Riaz said.

Recent figures from West Yorkshire Police show a significant rise in racially motivated crimes. Riaz, who sits on a panel that studies racial incidents in Kirklees, believes -- like the police -- that that is largely because of greater awareness are more people being willing to report incidents.

But he is also concerned that the pressure on schools to meet tough literacy and numeracy standards could mean school leadership teams have less time to focus on community cohesion.

Meanwhile, Batista is confident that his beloved hometown will weather this latest storm. And he'll carry on doing all he can to promote inclusiveness and kindness in schools.

"Huddersfield is a very tight community. People look after each other in Huddersfield," he said.-------------------Escaped snow leopard shot and killed in zoo





(CNN) A snow leopard was shot and killed at a zoo in the United Kingdom after it escaped an enclosure left open by its keeper, zoo officials said.

The revelation Friday that Margaash, an 8-year-old snow leopard, was shot dead October 23, after the zoo had closed to visitors, prompted dismay among conservationists. The species is considered vulnerable to becoming endangered.

Dudley zoo's director said the snow leopard did not suffer as it was euthanized with a single shot.

"This was an incredibly sad incident and our staff are understandably heartbroken," Dudley Zoological Gardens Director Derek Grove said in a statement.

"Euthanasia is, and always will be, a last resort," he said. "Efforts to persuade Margaash to return to his enclosure failed and as the animal was close to surrounding woodland and dark was approaching, the vet did not believe a tranquillizer dart was a safe option due to the amount of time the drug takes to work."

Zoo staff had "no other option in the interest of public safety," according to the statement, adding that the animal "did not suffer" as it was euthanized with a single shot by a senior member of the firearms team.

Read More

Why this captured snow leopard is exciting researchers The zoo's focus since the incident "has been to fully investigate what happened and carry out a stringent review of all zoo enclosure security," according to the statement. The Snow Leopard Trust noted that snow leopards remain under severe threat and are classified as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, which means the species faces a real danger of extinction, spokesman Matt Fiechter told CNN. While it's hard to pinpoint the species' global population, the Snow Leopard Trust estimates that only between 4,000 and 6,500 animals remain in the wild, he said. The global zoo population of snow leopards stands around 500. Big cats on the roof of the world: Protecting Asia's elusive snow leopards Dudley Metropolitan Borough Council was "hugely saddened" by the news of the snow leopard's death but supports the zoo's handling of the incident, said Cathryn Bayton, a local politician responsible for public health. "We fully support the actions they took and will be working with them, offering support and advice following this most unfortunate incident, and have every faith in their ability to deliver on the terms of their license," she told CNN. Margaash arrived in 2011 at Dudley Zoo, in the English West Midlands, from Banham Zoo, in the east of England, and lived with a 3-year-old female named Taïga.-------------------Left to go it alone, Ukraine's navy waits for Russia's next move





Mariupol, Ukraine (CNN) As Maxim Nosenko strides the decks of one of Ukraine's moored naval gunships, frozen in a biting chill that rips through the port of Mariupol, he's left to contemplate Kiev's unlikely response to the apparent bid by Moscow to annex the sea behind him: inactivity.

"Our superiors stopped our moving and patrolling because of the situation", said Nosenko, a spokesman for the Ukrainian navy. "Right now we are on a state of readiness to react to all situations."

The broad concern here, in an armed force that has fended off the massively better-equipped Russian military during a slow relentless four-year conflict, is that this is the beginning of a new episode. That Moscow really seeks to control not just naval traffic in and out of the Sea of Azov, but also the sea itself.

The goal, they worry, is to dominate the Ukrainian coast between Russia proper and the Crimean peninsula that Moscow annexed in 2014. The peninsula is currently only reachable from Russia through an expensive bridge across the Kerch Strait. A land corridor would be a huge advantage.

Read More

For now, Ukrainian officials say, Russia's measures extend to simply limiting traffic in and out of the sea. "Russian coast guard ships take under control the civilian ships going to our ports and take some time to check all documents", said Nosenko. "More than twenty ships are waiting on that side to proceed to our ports." Further along the coast, the media are treated to a show of the strength that Ukraine's military has mustered in the last four years, a display of attack helicopters strafing an empty field, and anti-aircraft guns shooting a flare over the Azov coast. But it isn't going to change Moscow's plans in and of itself. What would is global unified condemnation, but that's been limited. The commander of Ukraine's joint operation, Sergei Naev, told CNN: "I think that the American leader must say to our enemy to stops his aggression and stop it now." With 24 sailors still in Russian prisons and a vital sea route now seized, it seems, Kiev has found itself much more isolated than in 2014, when Russia annexed Crimea. The US has not led the world in further sanctions against Moscow, and instead President Donald Trump has, until his last-minute cancellation of their G20 meeting, entertained a chummy one-on-one with Vladimir Putin. Ukraine has, if you discount the countless rhetoric of "grave concern" echoing around European capitals, been left to go it alone. Friday their response gained an edge, when Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko tweeted that Russians aged 16 to 60 would be barred from entering Ukraine, the most concrete measure taken yet by Kiev during the 30 days of the martial law they have declared. Ukraine is woefully unprepared to wage a fight with Russia at sea Poroshenko cited the fact that Russian citizens entered illegally in 2014 to foment the unrest in Crimea and the East. But these are two countries that have been symbiotic for decades, and it'll hurt Ukrainians as much as Russians. Clearing leaves up from green areas near Mariupol's under-used railway tracks is a group of Ukrainian women, in orange overalls, who will probably add the ban on Russians to the list of things they blame their president for. "If we had a normal president would women work like this, in this kind of job?", asked Maria, as she and her six colleagues raced towards the Biz Cafe near the rail tracks for a short and early lunch. "I have relatives in Russia," interjected Elena. "We are Russian. I don't understand this kind of conflict." In the cutting chill, Poroshenko appears to have taken the blame for the damage the war has done to their hard graft world, while Putin has emerged cleaner, stronger, despite being to blame for the repeated invasions and the threat of another. "I don't know why [Trump] supports Poroshenko", said Elena. A third, Anastasia, said: "I have many Russian friends who worry for us like we worry for them. We need another, good president." On a cliff top overlooking the idle port strolls Dimitry Ponomaryo, a little breathless from the steep climb, but his lungs full of the discontent caused by a crashing wartime economy here. "There is little work here and no one has paid us, we don't have enough money. Russia's don't need to attack, they won't invade." He added he thought sanctions would be toughened if Russia invaded, but that Trump was not, at present, being that weak. "He should talk with Putin but also close the Bosphorus [Strait into the Black Sea] to the Russians and then we will see how they feel."-------------------After 5 months at sea, Ross Edgley completes swim around Great Britain





(CNN) After spending 157 days at sea, a 33-year-old man came ashore Sunday and became the first person to swim around the mainland of Great Britain, according to Red Bull, the company that documented his feat.

Ross Edgley started the 1,791-mile trek June 1 in Margate, a coastal town in southeast England. On Sunday morning, he returned to the same location and was met by 300 other people who swam the last half mile with him.

Sound on and hear the amazing noise of 300 swimmers ready to guide @RossEdgley back to where he started 157 days ago 🔊



Watch it live at https://t.co/WL7ZeFMEuh 🇬🇧🏊‍♂️ pic.twitter.com/0L7Ye5bMOM — Red Bull UK (@RedBullUK) November 4, 2018

"I won't lie, getting a tad emotional now knowing it's coming to an end," he posted on Instagram on Frida y.

For past five months, Edgley has endured rough seas, jelly fish stings, sharks and icy waters.

He never set foot on land throughout his journey and instead rested on a support boat between his six-hour swims, according to Red Bull. During his breaks, he slept on the boat, fueled his body by eating up to 15,000 calories a day and rolled out his tired muscles - all while documenting his journey for social media.

Read More

He and the company called his effort The Great British Swim. After 157 days at sea, @RossEdgley has just become the first person to swim around the whole of mainland Great Britain 🇬🇧🏊‍♂️



A truly extraordinary achievement 🎉🏆 pic.twitter.com/JDQXxbGU9O — Red Bull UK (@RedBullUK) November 4, 2018 Edgley faced health issues ranging from chaffing around his neck from his wet suit and "salt mouth." That condition is caused by the buildup of salt on his tongue, which made pieces of his tongue flake off. But nothing stopped him from completing his race. It's OFFICIAL 😊 Today the #greatbritishswim became recognised at the World's Longest Staged Sea Swim (without flippers & snorkels). Muchos HAPPY but only a mini celebration, then 900 more miles. IMPORTANT NOTE: If you've ever commented, liked or shared CANNOT thank you enough pic.twitter.com/bnfxU61bhJ — Ross Edgley (@RossEdgley) August 14, 2018 In August, his path around Great Britain was recognized as the Longest Staged Sea Swim propelled only by muscle power (no flippers). Red Bull documented his journey since the beginning with weekly vlogs posted to their YouTube channel. "It's my hope that people remember the Great British Swim as an example or experiment in both mental and physical fortitude," he said in a vlog posted by Red Bull on Thursday.-------------------Ukraine bans Russian men aged 16 to 60 from entry





Moscow (CNN) Ukraine will restrict the entry of Russian men aged between 16 and 60 in an effort to prevent Russia from forming "private armies" on its soil, President Petro Poroshenko said Friday.

Poroshenko cited fears of an invasion similar to Russia's seizure and annexation of the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea in 2014 as the logic behind his latest security measures.

The ban follows Kiev's imposition of 30 days of martial law in a handful of provinces. Tensions have soared between the two former Soviet Republics after Russian boats attacked and seized three Ukrainian navy vessels and 24 sailors in the Kerch Strait last weekend.

A court in Crimea ordered all 24 sailors to be detained for two months earlier this week pending trial. On Thursday, a number of the sailors were transferred to Moscow, according to a lawyer for two of the sailors. CNN reached out to the detention center but did not receive a response.

On Friday, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said the entry ban on Russian men showed Kiev's "dysfunction" but stopped short of calling for a tit-for-tat retaliation.

Read More

"It's frightening to talk about mirrored response, because if anyone even tries mirroring what's going on now in Kiev, it can lead only to madness," Zakharova told reporters Friday. "The somersaults that we see in Kiev, and in Ukraine in general, show the complete dysfunction of the state, of the state as an entity, a consequence of the wild -- and it's impossible not to say premeditated -- movements of the country's leadership," she added. Ukrainian sea border security soldiers man a checkpoint at the Mariupol Port on Wednesday. Questions over Putin's endgame Friday's security order is likely to make the lives of those residing in the border regions much more difficult. Ukraine and Russia are heavily interconnected; many residents have friends and family on the other side of borders. Earlier this week, Poroshenko said Russia appeared to be building its military presence along the border, sparking further concerns that the long-simmering conflict is entering a new phase. JUST WATCHED Everything you forgot about the conflict in Ukraine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Everything you forgot about the conflict in Ukraine 01:50 "The country is under the threat of a full-scale war with the Russian Federation," Poroshenko said. There have also been reports of Russian missiles being moved in the aftermath of the standoff. The Russian military will deploy additional S-400 air-defense systems to Crimea, Russian state news agency RIA-Novosti reported Tuesday, citing the head of the press service of Russia's Southern Military District, Vadim Astafyev. The clash and subsequent aftermath has prompted fears that Russia may seek to control all entry and movement in the Azov Sea. Crisis casts shadow on G20 Russia's use of force against Ukraine sparked widespread condemnation, and the crisis is likely to loom large over the G20 summit in Argentina, which began Friday. On Thursday, US President Donald Trump abruptly called off a bilateral meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin due to take place on the sidelines of the two-day event. No one can predict what Russia will do next Trump blamed the cancellation on Russia's refusal to release the Ukrainian navy ships and sailors seized during last week's incident. While the decision was applauded in Kiev, some tied the cancellation to the Trump's domestic political problems. Hours before Trump pulled the plug on the sit-down with Putin, new allegations surfaced involving his former longtime attorney Michael Cohen , once again prompting questions about Trump's financial ties to Russia. "Was the provocation organized by Kiev in this region the real reason for cancellation?" Zakharova, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said in a press conference Friday, Russian state news agency RIA reported. "Publicly, we heard just such an explanation, we took note of it. Is this a reality? I think that you still need to look for answers in the US domestic political situation. The dominant factor in making a decision is domestic political realities in the US," she suggested. The Kremlin also said it regretted the US administration's decision to cancel the meeting but left the door open to reschedule the appointment. "As far as Russian President Vladimir Putin is concerned, he is ready for contacts with his US counterpart," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Russian state news agency TASS on Friday.-------------------'I'm scared for the future of my baby here'





Paris (CNN) In a Parisian suburb, Myriam sits at her parents' dinner table, the Shabbat candles flickering before her. Together with her husband and newborn son she takes stock of the painful week she's had. It's a regular conversation for many French Jews.

Myriam, who did not want to give her last name over fears for her own safety, questions whether France is a country where her family can prosper, a place they can still call home.

According to the Jewish Agency for Israel, 55,000 French Jews have left the country since the year 2000.

"I'm scared of the future of my baby here," Myriam told CNN.

"I hope that he will have a future here, and you know Jewish communities are a part of the history of France."

Myriam's family gather for Shabbat dinner in a Paris suburb.

Earlier this month, the French government said that anti-Semitic acts had increased by 69% over the first nine months of 2018. The new statistics coincided with the announcement of a 5 million euro government fund to combat anti-Semitism in schools and a pledge to tackle online hate speech.

Frederic Potier, the man charged with leading the government's plans to tackle anti-Semitism, said the poll's findings were shocking.

"I'm really surprised by this number because in our country... 20% is a lot," he said.

When asked by CNN as to why the number was so high, he answered: "I will not say that we don't have any problems, yes we do. We have some problems, some teachers have difficulties to teach the Holocaust."

20% of 18- to 34-year-olds polled have never heard of the Holocaust in France Source: CNN/ComRes poll 2018

Arthur Reverchon, a history teacher who works with children in Paris, says Holocaust education is a large part of the program in secondary schools and often comes up in exams.

"The history curriculum taught to kids between the ages of 11-13 deals largely with the birth of Judaism. With regards to anti-Semitism in France, the Dreyfus affair is on the curriculum in middle school (13-14) and in high school (16-17), this allows us to delve into the issue of anti-Semitism in France and in Europe. The Holocaust constitutes a large part of the program in secondary school."

"On the whole, I think the Holocaust is well taught in the curriculum and it's wrong to say it's difficult to teach the Holocaust in French schools, particularly in the suburbs," Reverchon told CNN.

"I taught in three different schools, all three were difficult and in the suburbs, but I never had any difficulty teaching the Holocaust, my students were always receptive. If there are examples, and I'm not denying their existence, they are globally isolated events."

Violent attacks

Since 2006, when Ilan Halimi, a young Jewish man, was kidnapped and killed, 11 people have died in anti-Semitic attacks in France.

In 2017, Sarah Halimi, a 65-year-old Orthodox Jewish woman, was murdered in her apartment, dragged from her bed and thrown from the balcony in an anti-Semitic attack which shocked the nation.

Earlier this year, hundreds took to the streets to protest after Mireille Knoll, an 85-year-old French Holocaust survivor, was slain in her apartment in what French authorities have described as an anti-Semitic hate crime.

An undated photograph of Mireille Knoll (R), provided to CNN by her granddaughter Jessica Knoll (L).

That list of fatal attacks almost included Nathaniel Azoulay, an 18-year-old Parisian who told CNN how he was attacked by a man wielding a saw after a traffic altercation. Azoulay says the man had been civil toward him initially.

"He was talking to me normally, but at some point, his speech changed when he saw the kippah," said Azoulay, referring to his head covering.

The man's aggression prompted Azoulay and his brother to flee their car, running as fast as they could toward safety. Though both trained in Krav Maga, the self-defense system used by the Israel Defense Forces and taught in Jewish community centers in France, neither could escape the assailant.

"He started hurling anti-Semitic insults, 'f***king Jew, you're gonna die on this road,'" said Azoulay. "He wanted us to die... he stabbed my brother with the saw and my brother could not protect himself with his Krav Maga moves."

Azoulay says he tried to save his brother, who had been pushed to the floor with the saw aimed at his neck, but a group of the attacker's friends arrived and surrounded the siblings.

"The attacker was shouting: 'They're f***ing Jews we can beat up, come, hit them,'" said Azoulay.

"We tried to run back to the car. He attacked me again with the saw on my back but I had a big jacket. His friends were going towards my brother and pushing him on the ground. I managed to grab the saw. I grabbed the sharp side so it cut my fingers and I had to get it stitched up at the hospital."

Azoulay says the attack came to a halt only after the father of the attacker pleaded with his son to stop.

Azoulay's brother was injured in the attack and police investigated. But a trial has yet to begin.

The relationship between the two communities has deteriorated steadily as the politics of the Middle East has reverberated in France.

It's visible in the working-class Parisian suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois, which once had a thriving Jewish community.

The community center and synagogue were once full. But a member of the community told CNN the numbers have dropped dramatically.

Fear has forced many to leave for other parts of Paris or in some cases, leave the country altogether.

JUST WATCHED CNN poll reveals anti-Semitism is alive and well in Europe Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN poll reveals anti-Semitism is alive and well in Europe 01:57

Malika, a local Muslim resident who didn't give CNN her last name, says she is sad to see members of the Jewish community move away from the area, but it doesn't surprise her.

"They are right to be afraid because the conflict in Palestine has reached here and that's why we're in this situation," she said.

"When I see a Jew next to my place, or on the street I say: 'We are the same family.' They have nothing to do with what's going on in Palestine. They are afraid for their children and that's crazy."

The turning point

Yonathan Arfi, vice president of CRIF, an umbrella body for Jewish groups in France, says there have been "several hundred attacks" since 2000, with the nature of those attacks changing markedly.

He cites the start of the second intifada in the West Bank and Gaza in 2000 as the moment the attacks on the Jewish community began to change.

"Before it was graffiti on buildings, now it ends up with (the) killing of people and terrorism, so we see that the nature of anti-Semitism has changed dramatically," said Arfi.

"These attacks were committed by young people identifying with Palestinians considering Jews guilty of the things happening in the Middle East, I would say."

While traditional anti-Semitism is not a new phenomenon in France, the government is battling against what has been coined as the "new anti-Semitism," which it says spills out of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Potier says there is a divergence between both the "old" and "new" strains of anti-Semitism, which are equally destructive.

"What we call in France the new anti-Semitism is coming from radical Muslims, but as I say every day, the new anti-Semitism uses very old messages like the Protocol of the Elders of Zion, the theory that Jews have money and power," Potier said. "... both are completely linked. There is a common point between the far-right and radical Muslims.

"When you are talking about Jews and money for instance, it is the same cliché, it is the same stereotypes that are being used by these groups. So, when you are educating people, about religious beliefs, what is Israel, what is Zionism, you are using the same tools."

Hakim El Karoui, a senior fellow at the Institut Montaigne who has previously worked for the French Ministry for Economy and Finance and has advised the government on anti-Semitism, says the lack of familiarity between the two communities is a huge factor in creating tension.

Increasing segregation between the communities is a dangerous reality that is leading to even less interaction and understanding between communities, often prompting more tension, he says.

"What has happened in a lot of working-class neighborhoods is that where Arab and Jews once lived together, the Jews have left," El Karoui told CNN.

"They (the Jewish community) left Seine-Saint-Denis, they went to the west side of Paris and therefore they don't know each other anymore," El Karoui said.

"I'm pretty worried about the deterioration of the situation and I think the best answer to this issue should obviously be coming from the government but also from the Muslim community.

"It needs to say out loud: 'You have no right to say this.' It needs to say, 'You are wrong. You are making a mistake by saying this because in the end your words will come back against you.' The fact that there's a lot of silence on this topic is a problem."

The government hopes its new plan can begin to tackle the roots of anti-Semitism within France.

Earlier this month, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe announced the mobilization of a national team tasked with educating children in schools across the country on the dangers of anti-Semitism.

He also promised to make tackling online hate speech a national priority, as well as introducing an anti-racism prize named after Halimi, a 23-year-old tortured and murdered in an anti-Semitic attack in 2006. There are also plans for an online complaint procedure to allow users to register attacks with authorities.

Myriam's family sit down together for Shabbat dinner in a Parisian suburb.

But For Myriam and her family, the question of whether her son can live safely in the country of his birth remains a difficult one.

The violence toward France's Jewish community scares her, and while she says the government has tried to act, she is clear that more needs to be done.

"For over 10 years, the government makes efforts, for sure, in terms of legislation and policies, but it's not enough," she says.

"The first priority is to recognize that the problem, the heart of the problem, it's the radical Islam. First, name the problem. And then, it's more education."-------------------Sister of attacked teenage Syrian refugee also targeted by bullies in UK school





London (CNN) The sister of a schoolboy, a refugee from Syria who was attacked in an incident shared widely on social media, was also bullied at the same British school, according to the family's lawyer.

New footage emerged Wednesday showing a teenage girl in a pink hijab being shoved by teenagers. She is then pushed to the ground.

Earlier this week, footage emerged showing the 14-year-old girl's 15-year-old brother being taunted, grabbed and pushed to the ground as other students looked on.

It is not yet clear who filmed the incident, which occurred at a school in Huddersfield, northern England.

West Yorkshire police said in a statement that it is was aware "aware of a video showing a girl being assaulted at Almondbury Community School" and was "now liaising with the girl's family."

Read More

A lawyer representing the family of the boy, London-based Mohammed Akunjee, confirmed to CNN that the police statement refers to the boy's sister. The video of the Syrian boy's alleged assault prompted widespread condemnation and an online fundraising effort had reached £124,464 (about $159,000) by Thursday morning, two days after being launched. The boy told ITV News that the alleged attack left him scared of going to school. "I woke up at night and just started crying because of this problem... They think I am different, different from them" he said. "I don't feel safe at school. Sometimes I say to my dad I don't want to go to school anymore," he added. "I was disappointed when I came to the UK because I was thinking my life is going to be good, my future is going to be really good if I study at school. And I didn't achieve any of that." West Yorkshire police said Wednesday that a 16-year-old youth had been interviewed and reported for summons for assault, and that he would appear at a juvenile court in due course. "The incident occurred on 25 October this year and has been subject to thorough investigation since it was reported to us the day after. The victim and his family are receiving ongoing support from police and other agencies," the police said. The police also confirmed that the Syrian boy, seen in the video with a cast on his left forearm, had a wrist injury from a "previous unconnected incident" on October 7. Three youths were interviewed over that incident. "There was no further police action and the matter was referred to the school," the police said. Akunjee told CNN that the family fled from Homs in Syria to Lebanon. They settled in Huddersfield under a UN program in 2016. Destroyed buldings are seen in the Khaldiyeh district of Syria's central city of Homs on July 28, 2013. In a Twitter post, Huddersfield MP Barry Sheerman described the video as "absolutely shocking." "Have been supporting the family since it was first brought to my attention. Understand from council that the school have taken strong action. Will be following up to ensure all available support is being given!" he wrote. The school describes itself as "inclusive" on its website. Its head teacher, Trevor Bowen, said in a statement that the safety and welfare of students was the school's "number one priority" and that the "situation is being taken extremely seriously." "Since the incident occurred in October, the school, the local authority and the police have all taken action. We must allow the legal process to take its course, but I want to be absolutely clear that we do not tolerate unacceptable behavior of any sort in our school." Mohammed Tahir, who set up the GoFundMe fundraising campaign, said in a statement posted on Twitter: "I'm overwhelmed by the support that we've received and I can't thank everyone enough for the generous donations they have made. CNN's Samuel Burke contributed to this report.-------------------Chuck Norris and Hungary's Viktor Orbán, together at last





(CNN) Move over Vladimir Putin and Steven Seagal, there's a new strongman bromance brewing.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán released a video Tuesday that showed him promoting his counter-terrorism unit to none other than Chuck Norris.

The martial arts aficionado and actor met Orbán on a recent visit to Budapest, when he greeted the prime minister with a hug.

"I have read so much about you, I feel like we have already met," Chuck Norris, who was accompanied by his wife, Gena O'Kelley, said in the video.

Orbán later told the American that "90% of the comments on me is negative ... the liberals hate me."

Read More

"You're like [US President Donald] Trump," Norris replied. "A little bit more than that!" Orbán said. Norris, who is a devout Christian and social conservative, wrote on his Facebook page that he was in the country at the invitation of Hungarian Baptist Aid The 78-year-old has gained a following in the Eastern European country over the years. He was the frontrunner in an online poll to name a new bridge spanning the Danube, the Guardian reported in 2006 Orbán, like the action star, espouses Christian values and is a fan of the US president. Since his populist right-wing Fidesz Party swept into power in 2010 , and most recently won another landslide victory in April this year, Orbán has come under increasing fire over crackdowns on democratic institutions. These include the government's "Stop Soros" law, named after Hungarian-American billionaire philanthropist George Soros and introduced in June, which banned nongovernmental organizations from assisting migrants. "I am a street fighter basically, I'm not coming from the elite," Orbán, who went to Oxford University on a Soros-funded scholarship, told Norris in the video. In the video, the prime minister personally drives Norris to meet the country's counter-terrorism unit, which Orbán described as "the highest level and quality of defending the people." The scene cuts to Norris and Orbán watching the men in army fatigues wrestle, swing kettle-bells and perform a raid. The display prompts Norris to remark: "I have seen training all over the world, and this is the best demonstration -- the best I've seen." "Friends forever," remarks O'Kelley as she watches her husband thank Orbán for the excursion. In August, Russia appointed actor Seagal as a "special representative" on US-Russian humanitarian ties. Seagal, who became a Russian citizen in 2016, is a close friend of the Russian President and attended his swearing-in ceremony in May.-------------------Dutch church holds 800-hour service to protect family from deportation





(CNN) A church in the Netherlands is holding an around-the-clock service that has lasted more than 800 hours, to shield a family from deportation.

Under Dutch law, police officers are not permitted to enter a church while a religious service is taking place. So, for more than a month, hundreds of pastors and volunteers from across the country have been meeting to maintain the 24/7 service in support of an Armenian family whose asylum claim has been rejected.

Theo Hettema, chairman of the General Council of Protestant Ministers in the Netherlands, told CNN the service will continue "as long as it's necessary."

"We want to love God and our neighbor. And we thought that this was a clear opportunity to put the love for our neighbor into reality," he said.

The Tamrazyan family, including three children Hayarpi, Warduhi and Seyran, fled Armenia and have been living in the Netherlands since April 2010 while their claim for political asylum was being decided. But their case was rejected, and they've now been told to leave the country.

Read More

Hayarpi Tamrazyan, now aged 21, says she is "incredibly happy and grateful to all volunteers." Since the service started, Hayarpi has been posting regular updates on Twitter, thanking people for taking part in the service. The initial plan to thwart the deportation order was hatched in secret. Axel Wicke from the Bethal church and community center in The Hague, where the service is taking place, says only a handful of people knew about the idea beforehand so that the family -- who are staying in church accommodation -- wasn't put in danger. Vanavond leid ik vanaf 19.30uur het wekelijkse avondgebed met liederen uit @taize. Daarmee wordt aan de estafettedienst voor het #kerkasielBethel @BethelDenHaag weer een uur toegevoegd. Kom je mee zingen, bidden en mediteren? Als alles duister is, ontsteek dan een lichtend vuur! pic.twitter.com/DJVK2lorhn — Axel Wicke (@elziax) November 19, 2018 "Back then there was no rota," he told CNN. "After the welcome service, I took over with a couple of parish members." "I had copied and pasted the liturgies of the last 10 years into one huge document and we just sang and prayed through that, until other pastors were found and took over." He says while the police are not waiting outside the church, the building is being monitored "more closely than usual". 'There is a solution' The Tamrazyan family's only hope now is for government intervention. Under Dutch law, there is a provision for a so-called children's pardon for those who have been living in the Netherlands for more than five years. However, Martine Goeman, who is a legal adviser at Defense for Children in the Netherlands, says most applications are declined. She says there are about 400 children who are in a similar situation to the Tamrazyans, although it's hard to get exact numbers from the government. Rugby team rallies against deportation of gay player to Kenya "There is a lot of scientific research done which shows that after 5 years, a child cannot be deported without significant damage to their development" she told CNN by phone. She described the 24/7 service at Bethel church as "quite powerful" adding that it points to a groundswell in community support for children in similar situations. "It's not only the church -- it's also the broader community," she said. "The Minister for Migration could solve (the situation) in one day -- by using his discretionary powers. There is a solution." In a statement to CNN, a spokesman for Dutch migration minister Mark Harbers declined to comment on the Tamrazyan's case. He said the minister can intervene in cases involving "very specific, exceptional and urgent circumstances". However, he added: "Factors such as a long period of residence in the Netherlands and enrollment in education in the Netherlands are not sufficiently exceptional circumstances." Theo Hettema says there are "behind-the-scenes" talks ongoing with the government about the case, which he declined to discuss in public for fear of jeopardizing the process. Until then, the service continues. Reverend Joost Roselaers, who's one of the pastors taking part in leading the service, says taking care of refugees is a very clear part of his Christian faith. "How long it will take? Well, only God knows. Let's hope before Christmas," he said. "It would be a very nice time for the Government to change its mind. But we will go on and on until it's clear that this family can stay."-------------------No one can predict what Russia will do next





(CNN) The fact that nobody really knows what's going to happen next in Ukraine is the entire point. It is the core of Russia's strategy.

It has been for the four years of the war, and we should by now have stopped acting surprised by Russian pragmatism and adventurism. It's almost impossible to predict this accurately.

Five basics explain how the situation got to where it is now and how it's hard to know where it goes next.

First is that this is not a new war. It's not even an uptick of violence in the war. Fighting has persisted since the so-called Minsk accords of 2015. Shelling has happened almost daily along the frontline between Ukraine proper and the separatist areas of the Donbass -- and happened before and after the Kerch incident at the same rate.

People have died on both sides every week. The world simply didn't pay attention until the Russian military made the drastic step of overtly confronting the Ukrainian navy on Sunday. This is important to understand, as it explains why flare-ups like the Kerch Strait can turn into full-scale warfare in days, because both sides are armed, are ready for conflict, and have residual pools of loathing built up over 50+ months of fighting.

Second is that the Russian strategy is based on masking their moves and keeping their opponent off-balance. Russian military drills along the southern border happen now with sufficient regularity that it's hard for Western observers to work out what's a lurch toward war and what's just training.

The Russians have slowly been sending supplies into Eastern Ukraine -- the Donetsk's People's Republic (DNR) -- for years now. The leader of the DNR, Alexander Zakharchenko, was killed in a bomb blast a few months ago, leading many analysts to remind us that the swift departure of separatist leaders has occurred in the past before upticks in activity in the war. But even that is not a pattern that makes this predictable.

Western intelligence assessments of Russian President Vladimir Putin see him not as the master long-term strategist, but as the ultimate pragmatist and opportunist. He sees what he can get away with and then does a little more or doesn't.

The analogy of Putin as the geopolitical student of judo -- his favorite sport -- is tired, but apt. He sees what his opponent has overlooked -- or doesn't care about -- and exploits it. Only this fight is about sovereignty in the European mainland, not two sweaty men in robes.

Third is that Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko doesn't have a strategy, and frankly it's hard to see how someone in his position could.

JUST WATCHED Trump refuses to condemn Russia on Ukraine Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump refuses to condemn Russia on Ukraine 03:01

This has long ailed Ukraine. It is the malaise of power in Kiev: Corruption; oligarchy; under-resourced forces; infighting in a tired elite. All of it has hamstrung Ukraine's response to repeated Russian invasions.

If you need a sign of how small and internecine the political hierarchy here is, remember that Poroshenko is behind in the polls for the March presidential elections to Yulia Tymoshenko. She was a key figure in the anti-Russian-influence protests of 2004, known as the Orange Revolution. It's the same faces, often with the same old problems.

The job of Ukrainian president is not enviable. It is about managing a slow bleed. Moscow wants to retain influence on your nation, or at the least make it so weak it cannot ever imagine joining NATO or the EU. NATO and the EU want you to resist this, but have absolutely no intention of setting red lines deep enough that they end up sending troops to fight in your defense.

Internally, your public is increasingly furious with the destructive mess and slow harvesting of your territory by Russia. And your armed forces simply can't modernize fast enough to be a genuine match for Moscow's.

Even Wednesday's introduction of martial law was desperately confusing in practical application: are Russian citizens banned from entering Ukraine? Will there be a blockade on separatist areas? What does martial law look like and what does it change? If you do nothing, do you further provoke Russia, or do you actually provoke Russia if you do something?

Few people know and as I write this, two hours in, it's still unclear what martial law has changed. It seems that as Ukraine's president, whatever you do, you lose.

Fourth is that Putin really needs this. If you ever wonder why the Russian leader would go to all this trouble, recall that this is in his DNA.

The collapse of the Soviet Union was to him the "greatest political catastrophe of the 20th century," not an inevitable twist of economics. Russia has been involved in US elections -- and perhaps in Brexit, Hungary, Syria, Libya, Afghanistan, Africa, spy poisonings in Salisbury, espionage attempts in the OPCW, all since 2016. They show that Putin wants to restore the outsized global reach that the dwindling Soviet economy had during the Cold War. This is about prestige and vengeance. About restoring former glory. And he doesn't have term limits, or a legislative or judiciary, holding him back.

Finally -- and this is the big one that could have people really worried -- is US President Donald Trump.

Former US President Barack Obama refused to send combat troops or risk military engagement in Ukraine. But he got the world behind sanctions and led the charge of fierce condemnation at a time when many European states actually could have done without the headache of worsening ties to Moscow.

Obama's line was not militaristic, but it was firm and it damaged the Russian economy -- and with it, Putin's standing. Now, Moscow makes the brazen move of an avoidable yet open military-on-military attack in the Azov Sea -- rather than using proxy separatists or guises -- and the White House is muted on the issue.

Trump spoke out against "aggression," said he was "not happy" and might cancel a meeting with Putin. Yet remarkably the meeting was not outright canceled as a matter of course, and is still on the table days after the Kerch incident. In fact, his national security adviser John Bolton seemed keener to confirm it than condemn Russian actions, and omitted Ukraine from the list of things the two men would discuss. When asked about Ukraine, Bolton pointed reporters back to the recent statement of UN Ambassador Nikki Haley. There appears to be a strange phobia of outspoken criticism of Moscow from inside the grounds of the White House -- like stern words against Putin might result in anaphylactic shock. And Trump's unhappiness extends "either way" -- suggesting he could hold both Ukraine and Russia responsible. When Putin evaluates the global signals, assesses how far he has gone and how much further he might go, this is the key variable in his mind.

And then, you can be sure, the Russians will do exactly the opposite of what seemed inevitable, and wait. Or act suddenly. The inability to predict their next move is the point.-------------------Medieval London murder map reveals the city's deadliest spots





(CNN) There were many ways a person could meet a violent death in medieval London, from violent mob punishment (for littering eel skins) to getting wounded in a fracas (by a servant shooting arrows into a crowd).

That's according to University of Cambridge criminologist Manuel Eisner, who has plotted 142 cases of murder in the British capital onto an interactive, online death map of 14th-century London.

The academic used coroner rolls from 1300 to 1340 -- with records of accidents, suicides and homicides -- to help identify the deadliest spots in the old city of London, according to the Violence Research Centre at the University of Cambridge

"It was a society where conflicts could erupt, where male honor and a sense of having to be able to defend yourself played an important role, where many young men would have a weapon with them -- a sword, a knife or fighting stick" Eisner told CNN.

"It was not a society," he said, "where a lot of robberies were going on."

Read More

10 of London's oldest, greatest pubs The bloodiest areas of the capital included a stretch of Cheapside, between St. Paul's Cathedral and St. Mary-le-Bow church. Another hotspot was around Leadenhall market, further to the east of the old city. Other perilous incidents Eisner discovered include a fur dealer who tried to kill a street musician for performing at dusk. The dealer was instead mortally stabbed by the musician. Eisner, whose research featured prominently in Steven Pinker's book, "The Better Angels of Our Nature," said his favorite murder happened near Cheapside, where an adolescent killed a man with a pollaxe after the victim told him off for spilling urine on another young man. "I like it because you get an idea of the smells and sounds of central London," he said. "You get a sense of the kinds of daily conflict." Eisner found the majority -- 68% -- of killings happened on London's streets and at its markets. And, like today, the medieval homicide rate increased over weekends, with almost a third of murders happening on Sundays. The murder rate in medieval London, which had a population of between 40,000 and 100,000, was as much as to 20 times higher as that of a contemporary British town of that size, the academic suggested. But he warned against comparing it too much to modern Britain. The world now has firearms and emergency services, making it easier to kill today but also a lot "easier to save lives," he said in a statement. "Over 18% of victims survived at least a week after the initial trauma, probably dying eventually from infections or blood loss," said Eisner of victims in the 14th century.-------------------UK student to be charged after Syrian refugee attacked





London (CNN) A teenage boy is to be charged with assault after a video emerged of a Syrian refugee being attacked in the grounds of a UK school.

In the video, the 15-year-old Syrian boy is taunted, grabbed by the throat and pushed to the ground, as other students look on.

It was not clear who shot the video of the incident, which occurred last month at a school in Huddersfield, northern England.

The video prompted widespread condemnation, and an online fundraising effort had reached £75,000 (about $95,000) by Wednesday afternoon, a day after being launched.

West Yorkshire police said Wednesday that a 16-year-old youth had been interviewed and reported for summons for assault, and that he would appear at a juvenile court in due course.

Read More

"The incident occurred on 25 October this year and has been subject to thorough investigation since it was reported to us the day after. The victim and his family are receiving ongoing support from police and other agencies," the police said. The police also confirmed that the Syrian boy, seen in the video with a cast on his left forearm, had a wrist injury from a "previous unconnected incident" on October 7. Three youths were interviewed over that incident. "There was no further police action and the matter was referred to the school," the police said. A lawyer representing the family of the boy, London-based Mohammed Akunjee, told CNN that the family had fled from Homs in Syria to Lebanon. The boy and his family then settled in Huddersfield under a UN program in 2016. The lawyer said members of their family had been abducted and tortured by the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. One family member was killed, he said. In a Twitter post, Huddersfield MP Barry Sheerman described the video as "absolutely shocking." "Have been supporting the family since it was first brought to my attention. Understand from council that the school have taken strong action. Will be following up to ensure all available support is being given!" he wrote. The incident happened at the Almondbury Community School, which describes itself as "inclusive" on its website. The school's head teacher, Trevor Bowen, said in a statement that the safety and welfare of students was the school's "number one priority" and that the "situation is being taken extremely seriously." "Since the incident occurred in October, the school, the local authority and the police have all taken action. We must allow the legal process to take its course, but I want to be absolutely clear that we do not tolerate unacceptable behavior of any sort in our school." Mohammed Tahir, who set up the GoFundMe fundraising campaign, said in a statement posted on Twitter : "I'm overwhelmed by the support that we've received and I can't thank everyone enough for the generous donations they have made.-------------------Anti-Semitism never disappeared in Europe. It's alive and kicking





It's a 17-year-old boy, too frightened to wear a kippa (a religious skullcap) on the streets of Paris. It's an Israeli restaurant owner in Berlin who is told that he will end up in the gas chambers. It's a 24-year-old Austrian who knows nothing about the Holocaust. It's the armed guards outside synagogues and Jewish schools across much of Europe. It's the online chat rooms where people peddle conspiracy theories that Jewish "globalists" run the world.

It can be violent or subtle. Overt or insidious. Political or personal. It can come from the right or the left. It exists in countries that have large Jewish populations, like France, and it also flourishes in places with smaller Jewish communities, like Poland.

But one thing is clear. Anti-Semitism is alive and well across Europe. This was the glaring conclusion of a CNN investigation, based in part on a survey of more than 7,000 adults across seven European countries.

Despite Europe's troubling history with anti-Semitism, ugly, old stereotypes persist across the continent.

More than a quarter of Europeans surveyed believe Jews have too much influence in business and finance. One in five say they have too much influence in media and politics. In individual countries the numbers are often higher: 42% of Hungarians think Jews have too much influence in finance and business across the world.

While 44% of Europeans agree that anti-Semitism is a growing problem, a substantial minority is unsympathetic to the problem. Almost one in five (18%) agree that most anti-Semitism in their country is a response to the "everyday behavior of Jewish people." In Poland, 50% of people think that Jews use the Holocaust to advance their position; 19% of Hungarians admit to having an unfavorable impression of Jews altogether.

So why is anti-Semitism a growing phenomenon once again? Poland's Chief Rabbi, Brooklyn-born Michael Schudrich, is not sure the problem ever really went away.

"There will always be people who had anti-Semitic feelings and I don't know if the number has grown but this new situation today is they feel that it's more acceptable socially that they can express these opinions out loud...

"The feeling beforehand was, 'This is what I believe but don't tell anyone.' It was not perfect but at least there was a social taboo against anti-Semitism."

CNN saw this at first hand in Germany, a country still haunted by the killing of some six million Jews at the hands of the Nazis during the Holocaust. Making anti-Semitic comments can be punishable under German law. And yet, at a rally of hundreds of right-wing extremists in the nation's capital, Berlin, we saw a man brazenly flash a Nazi salute, an act that could have landed him up to three years in jail. Another protester told us that a shadowy cabal of Jewish globalists runs the world.

The arrival of some 1.4 million refugees in Germany has energized the far right. The focus of their anger may be Muslim migrants, but they are reflexively anti-Semitic in their views. The Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, once considered a fringe element, now holds a solid 94 seats in parliament. Its message is clear: you don't have to be ashamed of being angry, you don't have to be ashamed of being white, you don't have to be ashamed of your past.

But the rise of the far right is only part of the picture. Based on dozens of interviews with members of various Jewish communities across Europe, it is clear that the threat is being felt from many sides.

In France, many Jews talk about the "new anti-Semitism," coming from radical elements of France's growing Muslim population, which can be felt on the streets of Paris' working-class suburbs.

A happy life is a hidden life, we were told again and again by French Jews who refused to appear on camera. More and more Jewish families are moving out of these traditionally mixed neighborhoods -- a concern for the French government, which believes that integration, not separation, is key to improving the situation.

In Germany, the leader of Berlin's Kahal Adass Jisroel community organization, Doron Rubin, told me there is also concern about anti-Semitism coming from Muslim refugees, "who have a different history and a different background, especially obviously coming from the Middle East, and who have, also because of Israel, a different attitude towards Jews."

The nexus between negative attitudes toward Israel and anti-Semitism is a particularly thorny issue.

More than a quarter of French people have a somewhat or significantly unfavorable impression of Jews as a result of the Israeli-Palestinian issue. This impression is by no means limited to Muslims. Across the continent, many Jews we interviewed spoke of anti-Semitism coming from the left, which is often strongly critical of Israel.

Viewed as whole, it is a complex picture, made up of a confluence of different factors with no obvious, one-size-fits-all solution.

Felix Klein has called the results of the CNN poll into anti-Semitism "appalling."

Germany has appointed an anti-Semitsm czar, Felix Klein, who is working on creating a nationwide network for reporting anti-Semitsm and on improving education and integration in schools. Elsewhere, France is spending millions of dollars trying to combat anti-Semitic hate speech online.

Many agree that Holocaust education is an important step. Half of Europeans say that commemorating the Holocaust helps to combat anti-Semitism. And yet, frighteningly, the memory of the Holocaust is starting to fade.

More than a third of Europeans have either never heard of or know just a little about the Holocaust. That number is even higher when you look at the younger generation. In France, 20% of young adults have never even heard of the Holocaust.

When I asked Rabbi Schudrich how he feels about these numbers, he paused a moment before responding, "It makes me feel I have more work to do."

Europe should pay attention.-------------------How the Louvre Abu Dhabi became a place of discovery for students





Written by CNN Staff

More than a million people have visited the new Louvre Abu Dhabi during its first year of operation, among them many students: a guiding principle behind the creation of the Emirati museum was the potential role it could play in education.

In the last 12 months, a range of outreach programs have engaged local school children. Over 1,000 school trips have been hosted and 5,000 guided tours, workshops and masterclasses have been offered for all audiences.

"There is something really particular about learning through the collection, learning through the object... learning inside the gallery, looking at the artwork and really engaging with them," said Maral Bedoyan, Education and Learning Resources Manager at the museum.

"And there's something that's quite transformative in that engagement in that connection, and it can really change people's minds and it can really change the way you think, change the way you look, change the way you understand things and acquire new information."

The Louvre Abu Dhabi opened on Nov. 11, 2017. Credit: Tom Dulat/Getty Images Europe/Getty Images

In the past year, the Louvre Abu Dhabi hosted close to 30,000 students with activities designed to engage young minds in art and history.

"It's just better for them to see things in real life," said Claire Ferguson, a teacher at the Raffles International School. "We can talk about it see pictures in books we can ask them to research, but when we actually see if they'll feel more connected to it and they're enjoy it more. It's just a better experience for them."-------------------Jewelry and handbags found buried in lavish Anglo-Saxon graves





Written by Rob Picheta, CNN

Opulent personal goods including jewelry, handbags, and weapons have been recently found in 20 ancient graves, dating back to the fifth and sixth century in England.

The cemetery was unearthed throughout July 2018 after a local metal detectorist spotted a number of ancient artifacts, including copper brooches and spear heads.

"Almost without exception, the burials were accompanied by a rich array of objects," said Hugh Willmott , Senior Lecturer in European Historical Archaeology from the University of Sheffield, who was involved in the project.

"What is particularly interesting is the significant proportion of very lavish burials which belonged to women.

A detail of from the findings. Credit: University of Sheffield

Excavations have uncovered more than 20 burials at the site in the Lincolnshire Wolds. Credit: University of Sheffield

"These women wore necklaces made from sometimes hundreds of amber, glass and rock crystal beads, used personal items such as tweezers, carried fabric bags held open by elephant ivory rings, and wore exquisitely decorated brooches to fasten their clothing," he added.

Related video: Bronze Age discovery: Is this Britain's Pompeii?

The remains of the Anglo-Saxon people found at the site are now being analyzed by scientists at the University of Sheffield.

The academics hope that study of the skeletons' bones and teeth will help them identify where they grew up and what food they ate.

They also want to identify the elephant species which produced the number of ivory rings found at the site.

Some of the artifacts discovered during excavations at a previously unknown Anglo-Saxon cemetery. Credit: Danny Lawson/PA Images via Getty Images

Brooch artifact disovered during the excavation. Credit: University of Sheffield

"The preservation of the skeletal remains, as well as the many grave finds, provide an exciting opportunity to explore the social and cultural dynamics of the community who chose to bury their dead on this chalky outcrop," Willmott said.-------------------See how Advent is celebrated around the globe (photos)





See how Advent is celebrated around the globe Forrest Brown, CNN • Updated 2nd December 2018 Email

From Mexico and the United Kingdom to China and Germany, see photos of how the Christian season of Advent is celebrated around the globe.-------------------50 of the world's best desserts





(CNN) — Imagine the best dessert on Earth. Better yet, turn to a stranger on the street and ask them. Odds are good -- dollars to doughnuts -- their answer is different from yours.

From childhood treats to a grandparent's favorite recipes, beloved foods are deeply personal. This seems especially true of desserts, which often take pride of place at celebrations and traditional holidays.

For all the nostalgia of sugary treats, though, some sweets rise above local flavors. Head to any country to find tender slices of Italian tiramisú at the bottom of cafe menus or sniff out the creamy scent of Hong Kong's dan tats in cities around the globe. In the unofficial elections of the stomach, both have been voted to a permanent place in the world's food hall of fame.

And like dan tats, many of these recipes aren't desserts at all -- the eggy tart is more often eaten as an afternoon snack. The idea of serving a sweet at the end of a coursed meal is relatively recent, and in some places, including Africa and Asia, desserts are a foreign import.

But with food, like language or culture, determining what's "foreign" turns out to be complicated. Tiramisu relies on chocolate, coffee and sugar that arrived in Italy through global trade, while Hong Kong's most iconic sweet has roots in the Portuguese age of exploration.

Related content These beloved desserts preserve sugar's history

Like the best desserts, then, this list blends the personal with something more broadly appealing. It's the fruit of my nine years in the pastry kitchen, when I traveled to explore new-to-me flavors everywhere from Liguria, Italy, to Yucatan, Mexico, and conversations with chefs whose resumes are as global as the recipes themselves.

In emails sent from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, Syrian-Lebanese cookbook author Anissa Helou recalled favorite sweets that grace tables in Morocco, Iran and the Levant.

In alphabetical order, here's a list of some of the greatest sweets on the planet, from humble chocolate chip cookies to the crisp tang of kashata, a beloved brittle that's enjoyed across East Africa. Bon appétit -- or as they'd say in Swahili, karibu chakula!

Alfajores, South America

Shutterstock

Step into a neighborhood bakery from Argentina to Peru, and you're likely to find these tender, filled cookies piled high behind the counter. The crumbly bite of shortbread gives way to a sweet layer of dulce de leche, a caramel-like candy made by gently cooking sweetened milk until it turns into a rich, mellow treat.

The very simplicity of the cookies has proved to be the perfect base for creative cooks across Latin America. Try versions that are dunked in dark chocolate, coated in a sweet layer of white chocolate, rolled in coconut and dressed up with spices, or opt for the classic -- it's among the world's most comforting snacks.

Apfelstrudel, Austria

Natasha Breen/REDA&CO/UIG/Getty Images

For a floury lesson in gluten's architectural wonders, whip up a batch of traditional strudel dough. The real thing is stretched -- not rolled -- into an improbably thin sheet; according to legend, it should be transparent enough to read a newspaper through.

Once extended, the delicate dough is wrapped around a sweet, apple filling that's enriched with buttery fried breadcrumbs, raisins and sometimes walnuts. The delicious result can be found in pastry shops around the world, but for the classic experience, head to Vienna's Café Korb for a slice followed by a lush cup of cream-topped Viennese coffee.

Baklava, Turkey

Shutterstock

Dozens of delicate layers melt into a single tender bite in this syrupy confection, which is among the sweetest legacies of the Ottoman Empire. While it remains a sought-after treat through the Levant, Balkans, the Caucasus and North Africa -- regions that were once ruled from Constantinople -- the spiritual home of baklava is surely the modern-day country of Turkey.

There, pastry shops serve great trays sliced into diamonds, filled with ground nuts and dripping with honeyed syrup. This is just the most famous of the Ottoman Empire's syrup-soaked pastries, but it's snagged the limelight for good reason. With a simple list of ingredients and endless variations, it easily ranks among the world's most tempting treats.

Black Forest Cake, Germany

Shutterstock

Along with fairy tales and mountain-top castles, Germany's Black Forest region is known as the namesake -- if not the origin -- of the country's most luscious cake. Dark rounds of chocolate cake are doused in a cherry syrup spiked with kirschwasser, a sour cherry brandy, then stacked atop a thin, chocolate base with deep layers of whipped cream and fresh cherries.

If that wasn't flavor enough, the whole thing is swathed in more cream, dusted with shaved chocolate and studded with cherries. The resulting cake is a frothy dream dessert that's the star of pastry cases around Germany, where it's known as a Schwarzwälder Kirschtorte.

Related content Best German bars around the world

Borma, Middle East and Turkey

Shutterstock

Threads of crisp, golden knafeh dough wrap around a rich nut filling in this sweet dessert, which is an elegant and aromatic relative of baklava. Unlike baklava, borma is often fried, adding an extra infusion of flavor and a crisp texture that stands up to a sugary bath in flavored syrup.

And while baklava hides its filling inside a modest layer of filo dough, borma is rolled and sliced, showing off a cross-section of colorful pistachios, pale pine nuts or walnuts. That eye-catching presentation makes borma especially popular as a present. Pastry shops across the Middle East and Turkey tempt passers-by with piles of borma stacked high on enormous platters.

Brownies, United States

Robert Lachman/Los Angeles Times/Getty Images

Fudgy or cakey? Corner piece or slice from the middle? Aficionados of this beloved American sweet are sure to have a take on the best -- and worst -- way to make a brownie. One of the earliest recipes appeared in Fannie Farmer's 1906 "Boston Cooking School Cook Book," using the unsweetened chocolate that lends brownies a fudgy texture.

In more than a century of brownie making, they've become a mainstay treat, the base for sundaes and a seriously addictive ice cream flavor.

Even the actress Katharine Hepburn had an opinion on how to bake them, and an old story holds that the glamorous star once dispensed the following advice: "Never quit, be yourself and don't put too much flour in your brownies."

Cannoli, Sicily

Shutterstock

A shattering-crisp shell gives way to a creamy cheese filling in this Sicilian classic, whose roots reach deep into the island's diverse culinary history. With origins at the wild Carnival celebrations at Palermo, the traditional cannolo is filled with silky-smooth ricotta cheese made from sheep's milk.

Taste that rich filling for evidence of the Arab influence that infuses Sicilian cuisine: The candied citrus that often flavors the creamy interior remains beloved throughout the Middle East.

Related content Going to Sicily? 10 things to know before your trip

Cardamom Buns, Sweden

Shutterstock

October 4 might be Cinnamon Bun Day on the Swedish calendar, but many bun aficionados insist that the aromatic cardamom version outshines cinnamon's more assertive charms. One of a family of vetebullar, or wheat buns, cardamom buns are best enjoyed as a part of fika, the coffee break that comes twice daily in many Swedish workplaces.

While a freshly baked cardamom bun is a memorable treat, it's also a simple and comforting one. In a classic recipe from author Johanna Kindvall , crushed cardamom seeds are stirred into lightly enriched, yeasted dough, then rolled up with a sweet layer of sugar and spice.

For the perfect fika, whip up a batch of cardamom buns, brew some strong coffee and call a friend, since the iconic Swedish coffee break is as much about talking as it is about treats.

Cendol, Singapore

Shutterstock

On sweltering afternoons in Singapore, locals cool off with this chilled and silky sweet, which is a favorite at seaside restaurants and sidewalk stands. Iced coconut milk is sweetened with a palm sugar syrup, which lends it a lightly smoky, caramelized flavor.

The rich liquid is a lush base for tender threads of green rice-flour jelly, which gets its vivid color from the pandan juice that's extracted from leaves of the tropical screw pine.

Versions of this blissfully cool dessert can be found throughout southeast Asia, but with the addition of a scoop of sweetened red beans, Singapore's take on the classic treat remains especially tempting.

Chocolate Chip Cookies, United States

Shutterstock

The quintessential American treat is deceptively simple: a basic, creamed-butter cookie recipe turns out to have endless subtle variations that produc dramatically different results.

Whatever your favorite version, a perfect chocolate chip cookie is a delicate balance of textures and flavors. A crispy rim gives way to a tender, melting center, and the buttery sweetness of the dough sets off the slight edge of bittersweet chocolate and brown sugar.

Legend has it that the chocolate chip cookie has its origins in a happy accident, when Massachusetts inn owner Ruth Wakefield stirred chopped chocolate into her cookie dough in an attempt to make uniformly chocolatey cookies. Her brand-new recipe was published in a Boston newspaper, and the rest was pastry history.

Chocolate Mousse, France

Shutterstock

An airy confection made with just a handful of ingredients, chocolate mousse is a delicious paradox: the richer it is, the lighter it seems. Gallic chefs have been whipping up chocolate mousse -- the word means "foam" in French -- for at least a few hundred years, but the quest for foamy chocolate is much older.

Among the Olmec, Maya and Aztec peoples who consumed chocolate long before contact with Europeans, a hefty layer of foam was considered the height of good taste, and ancient codices depict cooks pouring chocolate from several feet in the air to create a froth.

Coconut Cake, Southern United States

Shutterstock

Bouncy, buttery rounds of vanilla cake are piled high with shredded coconut and seven-minute frosting for a classic Southern dessert. This is the kind of all-American sweet that stars at potlucks, cake walks and church picnics, and it's often made with recipes passed down on hand-written recipe cards.

There are dozens of versions, but every single one is cloaked in a frothy layer of shredded coconut ... preferably fresh.

Layer cakes weren't invented in the United States, but the distinctive profile of the coconut cake is pure Americana, and there's no mistaking the high, round shape of an American layer cake for a slim European torte.

Despite the minimalist, all-white color scheme, the coconut cake is an over-the-top, old-fashioned pleasure. The tooth-achingly sweet meringue frosting is a throwback that's rarely seen outside of the South, and it's worth making the original version for a taste of a unique American tradition.

Related content Blending culinary traditions across the US South

Cornes de Gazelle, Morocco

Shutterstock

Even in a crowded field of tempting Moroccan sweets, these filled pastries are perennial favorites, and the labor-intensive dessert appears at celebrations and special meals throughout the year.

In the classic version, a thin layer of dough curves around a filling of ground almonds scented with orange blossom water. Since cornes de gazelle are baked just until they're lightly golden, the dough retains a tender texture that melts into the center.

While cornes de gazelle are prepared across Morocco -- as well as in the nearby countries of Tunisia and Algeria -- the most visually elaborate versions come from the Moroccan port city of Tetouan, where bakers use intricate molds to create patterns in the dough before baking.

Crème Brûlée, France

David Carson/St. Louis Post-Dispatch/TNS/Getty Images

Shiny, burnt sugar tops this creamy dessert, and the perfect crème brûlée is a study in contrasts. Each bite should blend a bit of crispy caramel -- burned just to the very edge of bitterness -- with the aromatic flavor of vanilla custard.

Often made using pure cream, crème brûlée is among the richest of all the custard desserts, and it must be gently cooked in a water bath to prevent curdling and overbaking.

For pastry chefs, part of the appeal of preparing crème brûlée is the fiery drama of burning the sugar topping. They execute the job with everything from a blow torch to a traditional salamander, a cast-iron disk that can be heated to blazing temperatures and is said to produce the most even results.

Dan Tats, Hong Kong

Shutterstock

Follow the wafting scent of egg custard into a Hong Kong bakery to sample one of the territory's most iconic treats. Perfectly sized for eating out-of-hand, dan tats are best enjoyed fresh from the oven, when the warm custard meets a perfectly crisp crust. And with a map-spanning backstory, dan tats are among the tastiest symbols of globalization.

Many trace dan tats to the similar pastéis de nata of Portugal; those eggy tarts traveled with Portuguese traders and colonists to cities around the world. After establishing a foothold in Hong Kong via nearby Macau, they were re-exported to Chinatowns around the globe, where they tempt passersby from steaming pastry cases and shop windows.

Related content 17 beautiful places to see in Hong Kong

Doughnuts, United States

Shutterstock

In the Pantheon of world desserts, fried dough is a mainstay. Everything from French beignets to Greek loukoumades are doughnuts of a kind, and it's no wonder they're so beloved; a quick swim in boiling oil transforms simple bread dough into a fast and filling treat. But it's latter day American doughnuts that earn a place on this list for their creative approach to fillings and flavors.

From Portland, Maine's The Holy Donut to Voodoo Doughnut in Portland, Oregon, the old-school doughnut has been loaded down under piles of maple frosting, crispy bacon, fresh fruit glazes and boozy toppings that take the sweet into uncharted territory

Eszterhazy Torta, Hungary

Shutterstock

In its glory days, the Austro-Hungarian empire stretched across central Europe, and a century after the empire fell its creamy legacy can still be found in pastry shop windows from Vienna to Sarajevo.

For this elegant cake, slim rounds of almond meringue are piled high between stripes of chocolate buttercream, then topped with a marbled spiderweb of chocolate and vanilla fondant.

A melting texture and rich sweetness make this old-fashioned cake a perennial favorite in sweets-loving Budapest, but it's just as easy to find in Vienna, the grand city that once led the empire. It remains deeply influenced by a shared culinary tradition.

Flan, Latin America

Bob Fila/Chicago Tribune/MCT/Getty Images

In the sprawling family tree of custard desserts, Latin America's flan is the coolest cousin, blending perfect simplicity with creamy sophistication.

A whisper-thin layer of dark caramel tops the dessert, melting into syrupy sauce around the base. Flan might have arrived in Latin America from Spain, but it's since been claimed and reinvented by generations of cooks here.

In Mexico, where the dessert is served everywhere from neighborhood cafes to family celebrations, the silky texture of a classic flan is the perfect foil for a meal with fiery chiles and aromatic spices.

Gâteau Fondant au Chocolat, France

Shutterstock

Cut into a warm round of gâteau fondant au chocolat -- that means "melting chocolate cake" in French -- to release the slow flood of chocolate from the interior.

This dark and rich cake is a high-wire act of time and temperature: Serve too early and it's a sticky pool of hot cake batter; serve too late and it's a brownie. When the balance is perfect, however, the treat blends the tender bite of a chocolate cake with the oozy pleasure of a melted chocolate bar.

In the 1990s, the cake became a menu star as a lava cake or molten chocolate cake. While the heat of the craze has passed, this sensuous dessert remains one of the world's most sophisticated ways to end a meal.

Gelato, Italy

Shutterstock

From shaved ice to sorbet, frozen desserts are melting evidence of one of the world's great food truths: there's nothing so welcome as a cold, sugary treat on a summer afternoon.

On the global heat map of frozen desserts, though, gelato's sweet innovations earn top honors. Lower fat content and a warmer serving temperature help flavors shine brighter than in ice cream, whether you're savoring a sunny scoop of lemon gelato, a rich hazelnut version or classic chocolate.

In Italy, the year-round treat in an essential food experience, and true aficionados even make the pilgrimage to the Gelato Museum in Bologna , where tours include a guided tasting at the museum cafe.

Related content 500 food experiences worth traveling for

Gulab Jamun, India

Shutterstock

A lush, syrupy distillation of milky flavor, these deep-fried Indian treats are anything but a simple doughnut.

Traditional recipes for gulab jamun dough start with a scoop of khoya, a reduction of cow or buffalo milk that simmers for hours over a low flame, lending the finished product a melting texture.

Frying gulab jamun in ghee provides a second injection of fatty flavor before the dumplings are soaked in an aromatic syrup infused with cardamom seeds and roses.

The rich and labor-intensive sweet is a favorite at Indian celebrations from Eid al-Fitr to Diwali, but the name points to origins in Persia -- legend has it that gulab jamun arrived in medieval India with Persian troops.

Japanese Cheesecake

Shutterstock

For the cheesecake aficionado who finds the New York version a trifle heavy, this Japanese treat might be a revelation. In the creamy sweet, which blends the flavorful tang of cheesecake with the loft of a sponge cake, the richness of lightly cultured cheese is offset by a light and airy texture.

The secret is an unusual technique of blending beaten egg whites -- a meringue -- into a warm batter that is rich with cream cheese and vanilla. Versions of this cheesecake are available everywhere from Japanese convenience stores to top-shelf bakeries.

When making your own or shopping for the perfect slice, watch for a characteristic jiggle that hints at the light, tender texture to come.

Kashata, East Africa

Sohadiszno/iStockphoto/Getty Images

Wander through a market in East Africa to find this golden sweet, which blends the satisfying crunch of caramelized sugar with the rich heft of peanuts, fresh coconut or a blend of the two.

Bridging the delicious divide between cookie and confection, kashata gets an aromatic boost from the addition of cardamom, which elevates the brittle-like treat into the realms of world-class sweets.

The traders who once plied the coast of East Africa in dhow sailboats brought new words, flavors and spices from across the water, and the name of this beloved treat is adapted from Arabic -- but for many, kashata is among the sweetest and most nostalgic flavors of East Africa.

Kifli, Hungary

Shutterstock

While the rest ofthe world eats jam, central Europe enjoys the rich flavor of lekvár, a chunky preserve that retains all the tartness of the region's ripe apricots and plums. The hearty fruit preserve is the delicious prize inside these crescent pastries.

A soft, flaky dough is shaped into a plump half-moon that barely contains the sweet filling, then topped with a light blanket of powdered sugar. Not that kifli are limited to fruit preserves. The sweets, which are especially beloved at holiday times, are often stuffed with sweetened walnuts or poppy seeds.

Knafeh, Levant

Shutterstock

Golden pastry tops sweet cream, nuts or salty cheese in this syrupy dessert, which offers a satisfying contrast of texture and flavor. Like many Middle Eastern desserts, knafeh is soaked in an aromatic sugar syrup that infuses the pastry topping and filling with the flavor of roses or orange blossoms.

While crowds line up for sweet slices of knafeh from Amman to Alexandria, the most iconic place to try the dessert might be in the Palestinian city of Nablus, which claims the title of knafeh's home town.

In the Nablus version, a tangy filling of goat cheese is covered by threads of fine pastry or a tender blanket of baked semolina. Some knafeh-loving locals even layer the local sweet with a pair of pita rounds for a memorable sandwich.

Kouign Amann, Brittany, France

Shutterstock

Once a little-known treat that drew pastry pilgrims to Brittany, the kouign amann has officially made it big. Celebrity pastry chef Dominique Ansel gave it a boost by serving the caramel-crusted rounds in his SoHo bakery, but it's the kouign amann's sheer perfection that sent it down the sticky road to fame.

Brittany is known for the high quality of its butter and sea salt, and kouign amann simply means "butter cake" in the Breton language. It earns the name. Like a croissant, the kouign amann is rolled and folded with layers of butter, but fewer folds mean the kouign amann has a toothier, more rustic texture than its sophisticated city cousin.

A roll in sugar, a sprinkle of Breton sea salt and one of the world's great pastries was born.

Related content San Francisco baker's take on kouign amann

Kulfi, India

Shutterstock

Among the most voluptuous treats in the ice cream family, this frozen dessert has a temptingly rich texture. Traditional recipes, which can require hours of constant stirring, start by simmering fresh milk over a low flame, a slow reduction that lends a caramel sweetness to the milk's natural sugars.

While modern-day kulfi appears in dozens of flavors, classic versions are infused with some of India's most lilting tastes.

In cities across the country, visit a kulfiwallah for a transporting sample of rose, cardamom, saffron or pistachio kulfi; while recipes change with time, the sweet treat you're tasting is thought to have roots in the Mughal Empire.

Lemon Tart, France

Shutterstock

A slender layer of lemon cream fills this classic French tart, whose flavor balances rich butter, the acidity of lemon juice and the bite of lemon zest. The crust, with a texture that's similar to a shortbread cookie, retains a fatty crunch that's an ideal contrast to the silky filling.

When perfectly executed the result is dessert heaven, and the simplicity of the tart makes it a fitting icon of the French pastry kitchen. While the old-fashioned version remains a beloved stand-by, some of the best tarts in Paris offer intriguing twists: try Sadaharu Aoki's yuzu tart, made with an aromatic relative of the lemon, or head to Pierre Hermé to taste an extra lemony version topped by bits of candied citrus.

Linzer Torte, Austria

Shutterstock

Like its namesake city in Austria, this slender torte is an old-fashioned favorite that's still a star in the 21st century. A dough enriched with ground nuts, often hazelnuts or walnuts, melts into a jammy filling for a treat that's somewhere between cake and tart.

Recipes for Linzer tortes have been around since at least 1653, and in the torte's Linz homeland, families pass variations on the richly spiced confection from generation to generation.

Along with the peek-a-boo lattice crust that hints at the filling at the heart of the torte, spices lend this tender sweet its lasting charm. While the filling is often a simple fruit preserve, Linzer torte dough is aromatic with ground cloves, cinnamon and lemon zest that make the Austrian treat a perennial favorite.

M'hanncha, Morocco

Shutterstock

Cut into this golden spiral of pastry to uncover a rich filling of ground nuts, orange blossom water and mastic, a natural resin that perfumes sweets from Tangier to Turkey. Paired with a traditional glass of Moroccan mint tea, it's a generous and celebratory dessert that invites every guest to serve themselves as much as they'd like, scattering the slivered nuts and ground cinnamon that decorate the top.

Even thinner than filo, the delicate warqa dough that's used for this Moroccan sweet is prepared by daubing a ball of dough on a hot griddle; it's an impressive labor of love that takes deft hands and many hours of practice.

Related content 25 of Africa's most amazing places to visit

Ma'amoul, Middle East

Shutterstock

When celebrating some of the year's most anticipated holidays, many in the Levant reach for the comforting taste of these filled cookies, whose thin, semolina crust wraps around a delicious blend of chopped dates, nuts or both.

The simple cookies are shaped in wooden molds carved with intricate patterns, emerging as finely-wrought rounds or detailed cones.

They're a memorable treat with an appealingly mild sweetness, and a love of ma'amoul unites the region's three predominant religious traditions: Jews enjoy ma'amoul as a Purim treat, bakers shape vast piles of the sweets for Easter, and in some areas, ma'amoul are an essential part of Eid feasts.

Bite into one of these traditional sweets and you'll find out why.

Mandazi, South Sudan

Shutterstock

The addition of coconut milk lends a tender bite and subtle aroma to these satisfying fritters, whose light sweetness is especially appealing when paired with a cup of milky coffee or chai tea.

In some versions, a pinch of ground cardamom provides an extra jolt of spice, and the simple doughnuts are an invitation to get creative with flavors, toppings and sides.

While many mandazi lovers trace the origins of these fried treats to South Sudan -- where they're often served with a rich chocolate dipping sauce that lands them firmly in dessert territory -- mandazi are also a beloved snack across Tanzania, Kenya, Mozambique and Uganda.

Medovik, Russia

Shutterstock

A touch of honey infuses an aromatic lilt into the slender layers of this cake, which is among Russia's most beloved treats. In between the cake layers, which can be stacked 10 high in the most elaborate versions, is a creamy frosting that melts into the honeyed rounds.

Variations on medovik differ widely, but the most popular takes incorporate one of two very Russian ingredients into the sweet filling.

Some use the rich sour cream that adds flavor to some of Russia's most comforting foods, from borscht to blini. Others get their flavor from sweetened condensed milk, which became an icon of Russian cooking during the Soviet era, when fresh milk could be hard to come by.

New York Cheesecake, United States

Nathan Congleton/NBC/Getty Images

The Big Apple's most iconic dessert seems to defy pastry physics. A light crumb offsets rich creaminess, a winning combination that elevates a simple list of flavors.

Like the city itself, New York cheesecake draws inspiration from around the globe, and a genetic map of the cheese cake world would likely include the crumbly, dry-curd cheesecakes of eastern Europe, German kasekuchen and the fresh-cheese versions that are beloved in Italy.

Unlike more fanciful recipes, New York's classic take on cheesecake eschews toppings or pronounced flavors, with just a hint of vanilla extract or lemon zest to lend a lilting aroma to a blend of sugar, eggs, cream and cream cheese, almost always Philadelphia brand. The brand is so associated with American cheesecakes that it's often called out by name on menus around the globe, where tarta de queso Philadelphia or gâteau fromage Philadelphia are rich diplomats for a beloved New York sweet.

Oliebollen, Netherlands

Shutterstock

The Netherlands' sweet contribution to the world of fried dumplings, oliebollen are a deliciously Dutch way to celebrate New Year's Eve. A crunchy, crispy ball of sweetened batter studded with raisins or currants, then dunked in powdered sugar, oliebollen are best eaten hot from street stands called oliebollenkrams.

It might seem like a simple snack, but oliebollen are serious business in the Netherlands, where an annual contest uses blind testing at the academic Center for Taste Research in Wageningen to choose the country's very best oliebol.

Pavlova, Australia and New Zealand

Shutterstock

Pastry-loving Aussies and Kiwis get riled when dinner conversations turn to Pavlova, a wonderfully messy meringue dessert that's a long-running sore point between Australia and New Zealand.

Anna Pavlova, the globe-trotting Russian ballerina that the dessert is named for, visited both countries. Each claims the sweet as their own, but that's where the dispute ends -- no one denies the crunchy, creamy pleasures of a perfectly made Pavlova.

Sink a fork into the crisp meringue shell, and you'll discover a sweetly chewy interior. Piled high atop the meringue are fluffy whipped cream and tart fruits, a lofty topping whose richness and bright flavor offset the sugary base for a world-class dessert.

Related content For World Baking Day, take the Pavlova challenge

Polvorónes, Latin America, Spain and the Philippines

Shutterstock

Tiny, powdered cookies that crumble at the lightest touch, these shortbread treats are beloved from Manila to Mexico City. In the United States, a version of these cookies is often called Mexican wedding cookies, but it would be a shame to leave them for special occasions alone. Polvorónes are the kind of simple treat that's welcome as an afternoon snack or piled onto a dessert tray, where they can hold their own against the world's greatest cookies.

Recipes vary, and include almonds, walnuts or pecans, but each iteration of the cookies shares the same tender bite and origins in Spain; some speculate that the treats have even older roots in the Middle East.

Qatayef, Middle East

Shutterstock

As if hours of fasting weren't enough to pique the appetite, many Ramadan adherents can look forward to the sweet taste of qatayef when the sun finally does set.

The dessert starts life as a kind of yeasted pancake batter, but qatayef is griddled on just one side, creating a toothy balance between the golden-fried crust and tender interior. Stuffed into the folded base is a sweet mixture of fresh cheese, dried fruits, nuts or cream, often scented with rose water or ground cinnamon.

Some versions of qatayef can be eaten just like that -- perhaps with the addition of some aromatic syrup -- but classic recipes are fried before serving, adding an additional layer of crunch and flavor before the beloved sweets hit the holiday table.

Rigó Jancsi, Hungary

Shutterstock

Fluffy chocolate sponge cake is sandwiched with apricot jam and airy chocolate mousse in this classic treat. Topped with a whisper-thin layer of chocolate glaze then cut into tidy cubes of chocolate, the Rigó Jancsi stands out even in the notably crowded field of fabulous Hungarian desserts.

Beloved for a silky texture and rich flavor, the seductive cake was named for a love story that caught the world's attention with racy images and juicy details. Rigó Jancsi was a Romani violinist who won the heart of the (married) Princesse de Caraman-Chimay of Belgium, and the two made international headlines when they ran off together in 1896.

Saffron Ice Cream, Iran

DeAgostini/Getty Images

Scented with saffron, rosewater and pistachios, it's no wonder that this Iranian ice cream is a favorite at Nowruz, the Persian New Year.

From a lightly golden color to its distinctive aroma, the creamy treat is the essence of spring. Saffron ice cream, or bastani, is a memorable experience on its own, and its flavor alone easily snags a spot among the world's greatest frozen desserts.

For the complete bastani experience, though, opt for a traditional Iranian ice cream sandwich of saffron ice cream between two thin wafers. The wafers' mild flavor and crispy texture are the perfect foil -- and conveniently shaped handle -- for the rich and aromatic ice cream, which is beloved from Tehran to Tehrangeles.

Sesame Balls, Jian Dui, China

Shutterstock

Bite into the crisp shell of a deep-fried jian dui to discover a sweet filling within the golden, sesame-seed-studded exterior. This traditional Chinese treat is often filled with a sweet bean paste or a soft puree made from lotus seeds; both versions offer a deliciously mild counterpoint to the crunchy seeds.

Jian dui are especially popular as a treat at Lunar New Year celebrations, but not just for their delicious flavor. Dessert blogger and author Anita Chu writes that for many Chinese people, jian dui offer a special symbolism during that time: both the spherical shape and golden color are good omens for the year to come, as is the way the jian dui puff up when fried in hot oil.

Related content 10 of China's spiciest dishes

Snow Ice, Xue Hua Bing, Taiwan

Shutterstock

Like snow cones, Hawaiian shaved ice, raspados, granitas and dozens of other local variants, snow ice is Taiwan's answer to one of the world's great food truths: Nothing beats a sweet, icy treat when the weather is steamy.

Unusual shaving technique and complex toppings elevate the Taiwanese version above the competition. A creamy base, which can be flavored with everything from green tea to fruit purées, is frozen solid then shaved into a lofty pile of crumbling ice flakes.

To top it all off, blend your own perfect mix of treats. Favorites include adzuki red bean paste, taro, grass jelly, fresh fruit, sweetened condensed milk and mochi, but Taiwanese snow ice is an invitation to get as creative as you'd like.

Snow ice has spread to cities across the globe in recent years, but for the classic experience, head to Taipei's Shilin Night Market, where locals line up for the xue hua bing sold by dozens of vendors.

Sour Cherry Pie, Midwestern United States

Shutterstock

Slice into the crispy top of a sour cherry pie, and the brilliant filling might come as a shock -- it's an electric color that seems more likely to be harvested from a can than a tree. That electric red comes from the tart Montmorency cherries that are the classic filling for this pie. Since the tender fruits are more perishable than their sweeter cousins, if you live outside the Midwest or Northeast United States you might never have seen one.

Sour cherries have plenty of acid to counter-balance the sugar in the filling, and they're rich in tannins, too. It's a hint of complexity that put this fruit pie over the top as one of the best in America.

On the search for the perfect slice of sour cherry pie? Head to the National Cherry Festival in Traverse City, Michigan, or to Jacksonport, Wisconsin's Cherry Fest

Sticky Rice with Mango, Thailand

Shutterstock

Ignore the chalky versions sold in restaurants that are 10 time zones from a mango tree; a ripe, tender dish of sticky rice with mango is among the world's most perfect desserts. This traditional sweet begins with the glutinous rice that's grown in paddies across southeast Asia, and the starchy grains combine with rich coconut milk and palm sugar for a treat that retains a chewy bite even when it's perfectly soft.

The sweet world of mangoes includes hundreds and hundreds of cultivars, but for a truly Thai sticky rice with mango there are just two favored varieties: choose between nam dok mai, a sweet, yellow fruit that's pertly curvaceous, or aok rong, whose higher acidity offers a pleasant counterpoint to the sweet rice.

Sticky Toffee Pudding, United Kingdom

Shutterstock

The ultimate in comforting British desserts, this homey sweet is a warm serving of sticky nostalgia. A base of soft cake is studded with chopped dates, then drowned in a creamy sauce. Much of the distinctive flavor comes from treacle, or molasses.

While treacle has given way to crystallized sugar in most cooks' pantries, it was once a favored sweetener that was an important part of working-class diets in the UK. It's worth noting that sticky toffee pudding is not what's known as a pudding outside of the British Isles, where "pudding" is a generic term for dessert, but it's proved a popular export.

With versions served from Wales to Wellington, it's likely that the sun never sets on the world's sticky toffee puddings.

Tarte Tatin, France

Shutterstock

If you've never encountered this famed French dessert, then tarte Tatin may arrive as a delicious surprise. A world away from the architectural, lacquered creations that fill Parisian pastry shop windows, the very best of these are a humble mess with heavenly flavor -- preferably topped with a generous dollop of tangy crème fraîche. To bake this caramelized treat, start by layering apples, sugar and butter in a heavy pan, then top it off with a round of dough. The pastry seals the filling into a steamy enclosure, allowing the sugar to caramelize as the apples melt into tender perfection. The crux of the operation is when the tart emerges from the oven and must be flipped onto a plate before the molten sugar turns to sticky glue.

Tiramisú, Italy

Shutterstock

Creamy layers of whipped mascarpone cradle coffee-soaked ladyfingers in this modern Italian dessert, which has become a sweet mainstay around the globe. It's no wonder. With a name that translates to "pick me up," it's a combination of coffee, chocolate, cream and optional booze that's sure to pique even the most jaded palates.

Most pastry-loving historians trace the treat's origins to the Treviso restaurant Le Beccherie, but by the time the world reached peak tiramisú in the late 1980s and 1990s, rival claims were hot as a strong-brewed cup of Italian espresso. Whatever the truth behind the creamy dessert, it's earned well-deserved pride of place on menus from Umbria to Ulaanbaatar.

Tres Leches Cake, Mexico and Central America

Shutterstock

A fluffy sponge cake is the perfect vehicle for delivering loads of flavor in this wonderfully creamy dessert. The "three milks" that the sweet is named for are usually sweetened condensed milk, evaporated milk and cream, which combine for a delightful cake so wet it's almost a drink.

While fresh milk is now widely available, the flavor of sweetened condensed milk is a throwback to a time when the perishable stuff was hard to find, especially in warmer climates.

Even in the days of refrigerated trucks, the gooey, sweet milk retains an appeal all its own, and flavor that infuses beloved treats around the world: it's stirred into Thai iced tea, drizzled over shaved ice raspados in Latin America and cooked into Brazilian brigadeiros.

Trifle, United Kingdom

Shutterstock

Tender layers of sherry-soaked sponge cake alternate with jam, custard and -- in a practical British twist -- almost anything sweet and delicious the baker has on hand, as long as it's topped with a lush blanket of whipped cream. And no matter what you tuck between the rounds of cake, a trifle has a sweetly old-fashioned feel.

The name dates back to at least the 16th century and is probably older, though the ingredients of the dessert have evolved over time. Even as the equally-historic syllabub has disappeared from the standard playlist of homemade British desserts, trifle remains pure, creamy nostalgia for many food lovers.

The secret to the longevity of the trifle might be in its forgiving nature. When I was an apprentice baker in an Oakland café, a pastry chef offered me this reassuring advice: As long as your flavors are good, she said, don't worry too much about cakes emerging from the oven looking flawless. The worst-case scenario? "Put it in a bowl and call it a trifle."

Tub Tim Krob, Thailand

Shutterstock

With a name that translates to "crispy rubies," it's not hard to love this colorful and refreshing Thai dessert. After a fiery meal of Thai cuisine, tub tim krob cools with crushed ice and a sweetened coconut liquid infused with pandan leaves.

While often compared with vanilla, pandan has a lilting aroma all its own, but for tub tim krob lovers the "rubies" are the real treasure. For these, water chestnuts are soaked in vivid grenadine syrup, rolled in tapioca flour, then boiled.-------------------10 hidden Cold War sites in former West Germany





(CNN) — Berlin and its infamous wall are the epicenter for Cold War tourism, but there are plenty of other sites around Germany that portray the tension between east and west after World War II.

Many important installations can still be found dotted throughout the country, relics of a time when West Germany was a Cold War hot spot.

There are hidden bunkers, former rocket silos turned into art galleries, and secret airfields next to highways.

Here's a list of 10 best Cold War sites west of the former German Democratic Republic (GDR) border.

Bunker Marienthal

The Government Bunker is a massive underground complex once intended to house the West German government in case of Soviet invasion or even atomic war.

Located about 16 miles south of the former capital of Bonn, among the beautiful vineyards of the Ahr Valley, it was built between 1960 and 1972 inside two railway tunnels.

It was decommissioned in 1997 but has since reopened as the Government Bunker Documentation Site, where visitors can visit the decommissioned control room and even a replica of the frugal bedroom of the German chancellor.

Raketenstation Hombroich

If art in a former NATO missile base is your thing you might want to visit Hombroich near Neuss.

Built in 1967 as part of a new chain of air defenses, the base was operated first by US and then Belgian forces, and subsequently the German Federal Police's anti-terrorism unit, which briefly used the site for training after 1990.

In 1994 art collector and patron Heinrich Müller bought the base and turned a place of missiles into a place of culture. The halls, hangars, and even the observation tower were refurbished with the help of artists and architects like Erwin Heerich, Tadao Ando, and Alvaro Siza.

Today, visual artists, writers, and composers from all over the world live and work in the former missile base, which is open to the public for exhibitions and events..

Museum Insel Hombroich, Minkel 2, 41472 Neuss, Germany: +49 2182 887 4000

Marienborn border crossing

The huge Marienborn checkpoint is now a free museum and rest area next to Autobahn 2. Vincent de Groot

The border checkpoint Helmstedt-Marienborn on the border between Lower Saxony and Saxony Anhalt was once the largest and most important border crossing on the inner German border.

This was shortest land route between West Germany and West Berlin, so most transit traffic used the crossing, which became a bottleneck.

The GDR installations needed to process all that traffic (and catch potential spies and refugees from the east) were massive.

These have now been restored as a free museum with nearby rest area and restaurant by the side of Autobahn 2.

Marienborn , Memorial German Division Marienborn, Federal Highway 2, 39365 Marienborn, Germany; +49 (0) 39406 920 90

Highway strip on Autobahn 29

Another interesting rest area is the one on Autobahn 29, just north of Cloppenburg in Lower Saxony. This unsuspecting strip of concrete next to the roaring traffic was where massive C-130 Hercules transport planes and A-10 Thunderbolt fighter planes landed and took off during NATO exercise "Highway 84" in 1984.

Originally an idea of the Nazis, such impromptu airports were increasingly incorporated into German autobahns during the Cold War. (Even the United States' Ramstein Air Base evolved from a highway airport of the Luftwaffe). Most of these have now been reintegrated into rest areas or the autobahn itself.

The Barbarastollen

The Barabarastollen houses 900 million images from Germany's past. Joergens.mi

The Barbarastollen is a massive underground archive, intended to preserve Germany's cultural heritage from possible disasters.

Located in a disused mine near Freiburg im Breisgau, the archive holds microfilms with about 900 million images from German records and museums.

Related content Abandoned Berlin: The story behind its forgotten places

Built during the height of the Cold War in 1974, the archive contains such fascinating microfilm facsimiles as the treaty of the Peace of Westphalia which ended the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648), correspondence from the writer and statesmen Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, and the building plans for the Cologne Cathedral.

The entire complex is hidden under 400 meters of rock, and is intended to survive a nuclear war. It's estimated that its contents will survive for another 500 years without any serious damage.

Visits and tours are only possible with appointment.

Zweiländermuseum Rodachtal

The partition of Germany also deeply affected people living in rural areas away from the international spotlight.

At the Zweiländermuseum Rodachtal on the border between Thuringia and Bavaria there are 10 outdoor museum stations along the former frontier, plus the main exhibition in a typical local timbered house.

Here, visitors can find out about the events that were as dramatic and disruptive for the local populace as anything that happened in Berlin: complete villages demolished to make way for border fortifications, and also the Aktion Ungeziefer ("Action Vermin") in 1952, a compulsory evacuation of the citizens of Streufdorf against which they rose up in revolt.

Zweiländermuseum Rodachtal , 98646 Straufhain, Germany; +49 36875 50651

Haus der Geschichte

Haus der Geschichte: Divisions on display. Jpetersen

While the Haus der Geschichte ("House of the History of the Federal Republic of Germany") is a museum and not a site directly associated with the Cold War, it is still one of the best places in Germany to learn about the history of the FRG and GDR after 1945 and what followed after reunification.

Related content 11 things Germany does better than anywhere else

Set in a spacious modern building in the former West German capital of Bonn, its fascinating permanent exhibitions contain US Jeeps, so-called Rosinenbomber (Raisin Bomber) aircraft that were used during the Berlin Blockade in 1948, and iconic cars from both sides of the Iron Curtain -- the VW Beetle and the Trabant.

It is also a great place to start when exploring the former capital. The house organizes guided tours of the nearby chancellor's bungalow and the former place of the Federal Assembly.

Haus der Geschichte , Museumsmeile, Willy-Brandt-Allee 14, 53113 Bonn, Germany; +49 228 91 65400

Pattonville

This is an example of how some of the former US Air Force sites and barracks were recycled after the Cold War. Pattonville is a large housing area built by the US Army just north of Stuttgart as part of the Stuttgart Military Community and named after World War II General George S. Patton.

From 1955 to 1992 Pattonville was also home to the Stuttgart American High School, which accommodated 1,200 students at its peak.

Formerly surrounded by fences and checkpoints, the installation was returned to the German government in 1994 and opened as accommodation for the local population.

The streets are named after various US states, while the nearby airfield is a base for a rescue helicopter.

Mödlareuth

Mödlareuth, AKA "Little Berlin." Roehrensee

Just like the Rodachtal, Mödlareuth is a small German village that was divided by the front line of Cold War Europe. The northern part of the village in Thuringia became part of the Soviet occupation zone in 1945. A series of border fences were constructed after 1952, and the wall separating the two halves of Mödlareuth went up in 1966, five years after the Berlin one.

The American troops in this area nicknamed Mödlareuth "Little Berlin," and in 1983 US Vice President George HW Bush visited and exclaimed "Ich bin ein Mödlareuther!"

The border was reopened to pedestrians in December 1989, and most of the remaining wall was demolished a year later.

Today, an open-air museum includes a portion of the original wall as well as replicas of border installations, allowing visitors to experience this little Berlin away from the tourist masses at Brandenburg Gate.

Mödlareuth , Mödlareuth 13, 95183 Töpen, Germany; +49 9295 1334

Grenzhus Schlagdorf

The Border House Schlagdorf is a memorial site and museum near Lubeck. MrsMyer

The inner German border also divided the northern parts of the country. The Grenzhus Schlagdorf (the "Border House Schlagdorf") is located near Lübeck. The memorial site and museum features a section of the former inner German border between the Baltic Sea and the River Elbe.

Instead of focusing on the perspective of one side, visitors here can get an impression of the experiences of citizens of West Germany, East German border guards or even GDR refugees.

Grenzhus Schlagsdorf , Neubauernweg 1, 19217 Schlagsdorf, Germany; + 49 38875 20326

Observation Post Alpha

There were not only GDR border guards observing the west from watchtowers, the west also looked east. One of those observation sites still accessible is Observation Post Alpha, between Rasdorf in Hesse and Geisa in Thuringia.

The post overlooked the famous Fulda Gap -- one of the main potential invasion routes for Warsaw Pact troops.

Related content 3 great day trips out of Berlin

The post was decommissioned in 1991, and now houses a museum, a replica of the post, a strip of the former GDR border plus several military vehicles and also a visitors' center.

Point Alpha , Am Hummelsberg 1 D-36169 Rasdorf, Germany; + 49 6651 919030

Probstzella Railroad Museum

Probstzella: Where the iron road met the Iron Curtain. Starfix

The Iron Curtain not only impacted pedestrians and the autobahn, but also rail travel. The Probstzella station in Thuringia, though technically not in West Germany, was where many train journeys from the west halted.

Used as a GDR border checkpoint from 1949 to 1990, nearly 20 million travelers were controlled and sometimes arrested here. It is still a working station, and the featureless concrete border checkpoint behind the 1885 station building houses the GDR railroad museum.

The exhibition provides information about the GDR regime, the limitations of rail transport between east and west and the many escape attempts via the Probstzella Border Railway Station.-------------------Masters of the Sun: Will.i.am's augmented reality revolution





Written by CNN Staff

This story is part of " Smart Creativity ," a series exploring the intersection between high-concept design and advanced technology.

Will.i.am wears a lot of hats: Grammy Award-winning musician; co-founder of the Black Eyed Peas; a judge on TV's "The Voice;" headphones entrepreneur.

And now he's bringing his creativity and flair for innovation into a new dimension, incorporating virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) into a variety of interactive experiences.

The Black Eyed Peas performed at the Hammersmith Apollo in London in October. Credit: Neil Lupin/Redferns

"We're doing music, (documentary), short film, long-form, graphic novel, AR, VR," says Will.i.am, whose full name is William Adams. "Things that we've never done. Things that the industry hasn't done."

The project that started this wave of projects was a graphic novel titled "Masters of the Sun." Produced with the publishing giants at Marvel in 2017, it tells what Will.i.am describes as "a heightened story on the rise and the fall of what hip-hop was meant to be." It follows a group of heroes facing off against an ancient god transforming gangsters into zombies, in an allegory for the proliferation of drugs in predominantly black communities in the 1980s.

When viewed with an augmented reality app, Will.i.am's "Masters of the Sun" graphic novel reveals new elements. Credit: CNN

But to fully experience the graphic novel, readers must download an accompanying AR app: "When we put AR on it, the book comes alive, so people can experience our graphic novel in three-dimensional space," Will.i.am explains. As you scan the pages with your device, characters and scenes seem to jump out of the screen.

The graphic novel then spawned an hour-long, Oculus-backed virtual reality film scored by the Black Eyed Peas and Hans Zimmer, and starring hip-hop legends like KRS-One, Rakim and Queen Latifah.

This autumn, with their Masters of the Sun European tour promoting an album of the same name, the Black Eyed Peas are bringing their AR show on the road. During the finale, the audience is encouraged to take out their phones and watch the stage through an app that overlays the performance with colorful graphics.

With and app specially designed for the Black Eyed Peas Masters of the Sun tour, viewers can add augmented reality graphics to the finale. Credit: Courtesy @culturex_

"We're going to augment the layer between the person on stage -- us -- and the audience so that when they're watching the show through the lens of their phone, they're seeing something that's not there," Will.i.am said. "It's like Pokémon Go on steroids."

Watch the video above to find out more about Will.i.am and the Black Eyed Peas' experiential experiments.-------------------How Sophia the robot copies human facial expressions





Written by Stephy Chung, CNN Hong Kong

This story is part of " Smart Creativity ," a series exploring the intersection between high-concept design and advanced technology.

The field of robotics is fast-growing. Robots can now perform complicated movements with elegance -- back-flipping , practicing parkour moves, even " carving" classical sculptures.

Then there's Sophia, a robot whose widespread appeal lies not in big, dramatic actions (her torso is often fixed to a rolling base), but rather an unsettling human-like appearance, compounded with the complex ability to express emotions.

"We're not fully there yet, but Sophia can represent a number of emotional states, and she can also see emotional expressions on a human face as well," explains David Hanson, the founder of Hanson Robotics.

The firm has developed a number of Sophias at their small research and design laboratory in Hong Kong, where parts and pieces of Sophia 20, 21 and 22 remain strewn across the facility.

Meet Sophia: The robot who smiles and frowns just like us

According to Hanson, Sophia now has simulations of every major muscle in the human face, allowing her to generate expressions of joy, grief, curiosity, confusion, contemplation, sorrow, frustration, among other feelings.

"In some of the work we're doing, she will see your expressions and sort of match a little bit and also try to understand in her own way, what it is you might be feeling," says Hanson.

New technologies have enabled Sophia, a robot developed by Hanson Robotics, to generate an astounding number of human-like facial expressions. Credit: FABRICE COFFRINI/AFP/AFP/Getty Images

Besides deep learning and a pre-programmed set of expressions, Sophia's face is constructed using the latest developments in material technology, meaning it appears softer, more supple and therefore, more realistic. The lab also studies the neurobiology and biology of human facial expressions to help inform how mechanical ones can behave.

"She is a tool for science in studying human to human interaction, and she's now a platform for allowing AI to express natural-like human emotional state(s), which is something we're developing. True emotive AI," says Hanson.

Universal appeal

When Hanson first began sculpting Sophia, he wanted her form to resonate with people from around the world. To that end, he looked to old statues of Nefertiti, ancient Chinese paintings, Audrey Hepburn and even his wife as inspiration. But he also wanted to maintain something of a robot sensibility, too.

"It was very important that she represent this intersection of humanity and technology, with the intuitive idea that technology can enhance humanity, help us actualize to higher states of being," says Hanson.

"At the same time, (technology can) provoke these questions: What does it mean to be human? What is real, what isn't real? What is the reality of our future which does not yet exist?"

Sophia on stage at the RISE Technology conference in Hong Kong. Credit: ISAAC LAWRENCE/AFP/AFP/Getty Images

Since her activation in 2016, Sophia has since graced the covers of fashion publications and starred in a recent Moncler campaign. During an event at Shanghai Fashion Weekend, Sophia wore 3-D copper arm cuffs and sculptural garments designed by British artist Sadie Clayton.

"The reason I was interested in working with Sophia is because being an artist, it fuses fashion, art and technology. This was the most natural, organic way of me developing my process," says Clayton.

"I think she is so stunning in her right. And the expressions that she gives, it's a really beautiful, warm feeling."

Sophia, a robot created by Hanson Robotics, was named by United Nations Development Programme as its first non-human Innovation Champion in November 2017. Credit: PRAKASH MATHEMA/AFP/AFP/Getty Images

Besides modeling, she has made appeared on talk shows and spoken at conferences about issues ranging from artificial intelligence to the role of robots. Controversially , she was even granted Saudi Arabian citizenship, becoming the first robot to have a nationality.

"She's the one robot of the dozens of robots I have designed, that has become really internationally famous," says Hanson.

"I don't know what it is about Sophia, that speaks to people, but I hope that we can develop our AI and robots in a way that makes a deep emotional connection."

Watch the video above to find out more about Hanson Robotics.-------------------AI-produced artwork sells for $433K, smashing expectations





Allyssia Alleyne , CNN Written by

This story is part of " Smart Creativity, " a series exploring the intersection between high-concept design and advanced technology.

"Edmond de Belamy" has made history as the first work of art produced by artificial intelligence to be sold at auction.

The slightly blurry canvas print, which has been likened to works by the Old Masters, sold Thursday for $432,500 -- dramatically exceeding its original estimate of $7,000-$10,000 -- at a Christie's auction in New York.

"Christie's continually stays attuned to changes in the art market and how technology can impact the creation and consumption of art," Richard Lloyd, international head of prints and multiples at Christie's, said in a statement before the auction.

"AI has already been incorporated as a tool by contemporary artists and as this technology further develops, we are excited to participate in these continued conversations. To best engage in the dialogue, we are offering a public platform to exhibit an artwork that has entirely been realized by an algorithm."

Obvious co-founder Pierre Fautrel stands beside "Edmond de Belamy" before it hits the auction block at Christie's in New York. Credit: TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP/AFP/Getty Images

While the print is signed "min G max D x [log (D(x))] + z [log(1 -- D (G(z)))]" after a section of the algorithm's code, it was conceived by Obvious , a Paris-based trio fascinated by the artistic potential of artificial intelligence and machine learning.

Though none come from an art background, friends Pierre Fautrel, Hugo Caselles-Dupré and Gauthier Vernier first started experimenting with art and machine learning last year.

"We saw algorithms were capable of creating new images, and we were astonished by the potential they had," Vernier said.

To produce "Edmond de Belamy" and the 10 other portraits in the "La Famille de Belamy" series, Obvious fed a two-part algorithm 15,000 images of portraits from different time periods. After reviewing these submissions, the first part of the algorithm began generating its own portraits, trying to create original works that could pass as man-made.

Can artificial intelligence produce a masterpiece?

"All the data has similarities, so common features. So, first algorithm creates new examples of those images and tries to fool the second algorithm into thinking that those pictures created are, actually, real portraits, so human-made," Vernier said.

"We're looking at these portraits the same way a painter would do it. Like walking in a gallery, taking some inspiration. Except that we feed this inspiration to the algorithm, and the algorithm is the part that does the visual creation."

"Le Comte de Belamy" is one of 10 portraits that comprise Obvious' "La Famille de Belamy" series. Credit: Courtesy Obvious

While inventive, this approach hasn't been without critics. Many working in the field of art and artificial intelligence criticized or dismissed Obvious' inclusion in the Christie's sale since the type of algorithm used -- generative adversarial networks, or GANs -- have been used by artists for years.

Speaking to The New York Times ahead of the auction, Mario Klingemann, an artist known for his work with machine learning, likened "Edmond de Belamy" to "a connect-the-dots children's painting."

But in light of the auction result, it's likely Obvious will remain undaunted by naysayers. Their work has raised interesting points around the nature of human creation -- and clearly caught the attention of the world's collectors.

"I think (artificial intelligence) has its place in the art world because it tries to replicate what any artist would do, like trying to create from what he knows," Vernier said. "It forces you to try to understand your own creativity and how you would be able to replicate it."

Watch the video above to find out more about Obvious and how technology informs the trio's practice.-------------------China on course to have most air passengers by 2040, ACI says





(CNN) — Think those lines at the airport are long? Fast-forward a few years and they're going to be waaaay longer according to new forecasts that say the volume of global air passengers is set to more than double over the next two decades.

By 2040, air passengers will be taking a total of 20.9 billion journeys, according to the Airports Council International, a global body that represents the planet's airports. That's a huge travel leap from from 8.2 billion passenger trips in 2017.

So where will these extra passengers be coming from? According to ACI, mainly from China , which is expected to outstrip the United States to become the No. 1 country of origin for air travelers.

Related content 16 new airports and terminals we can't wait to fly into

Chinese passengers will be making four billion air journeys in 2040, accounting for almost 19% of all global traffic, ACI says. US passengers will make up about 15% of the market, with India in third place with 6.3%.

The huge surge expected in passenger numbers is good news for the global aviation industry, which has been pouring billions of dollars into upgrading existing airport facilities and building ambitious new ones.

But ACI warns more investment will be needed if the planet's aviation networks are to avoid heavy congestion.

Angela Gittens, director general of ACI World, says the rise of Asia-Pacific markets is a positive development, but a global plan is needed for the years ahead.

"While this is welcome, surging air transport demand threatens to outstrip current and planned airport infrastructure in many regions around the world," she says. "These physical capacity considerations and potential bottlenecks in air transport infrastructure pose challenges to the global industry in accommodating the strong forecast future demand."

Geopolitical tensions

l e v a r t

Despite the rosy traffic forecasts, Gittens says cross-border disputes and nationalist trade policies such as those favored by the current US government may cause numbers to waver.

"Geopolitical tensions and protectionist policies that retreat from further economic integration and air transport liberalization could also have an adverse effect on the air transport industry," she says.

Related content World's most popular airplane journey revealed

"The aviation industry must come together to respond to these challenges and help to ensure communities continue to reap the social and economic benefits of air service growth. Policy at a national and global level should be focused on facilitating sustainable growth over the long term."

Other nations taking to the skies in increasing number over the next couple of decades will include Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, UAE and the Philippines, according to ACI's data covering 110 countries.

Fastest-growing countries for passengers 2017-2040

1. Vietnam -- 7.8%

2. India -- 6.8%

3. Saudi Arabia -- 6.2%

4. United Arab Emirates -- 5.7%

5. China -- 5.5%

6. Philippines -- 5.4%

7. Indonesia -- 5.4%

8. Colombia -- 5.4%

9. Mexico -- 5.4%-------------------Istanbul New Airport in Turkey aims to be one of world's largest





(CNN) — It's ambitious, award-winning and already hit with controversies. Istanbul's new airport was officially inaugurated Monday -- although it won't be fully functioning til the end of the year.

Why the rush if it's not quite ready? Well there's symbolic significance: October 29 marks the 95th anniversary of Turkey establishing itself as a republic.

The swanky new airport aims to establish itself as a major travel hub and a key player on the world aviation stage, thanks to Turkey's East-meets-West location.

Once completed, the airport will be pretty huge -- the total project area is 76.5 million square meters. It's supposed to have the world's largest terminal under one roof, although it's opening in phases and only limited flights will take off at first.

But the PR team says the airport is "built to grow" and they hope the airport will see 200,000 or more passengers passing through daily.

Controversial project

Istanbul's new airport officially opened on October 29 2018. This image depicts what it might look like when fully operational. Courtesy Istanbul New Airport

The airport's tulip-shaped control tower and striking design won first prize in the "Future projects -- Infrastructure" category at the 2016 World Architectural Festival in Berlin.

Istanbul New Airport calls itself a "green" airport, thanks to its recycling capabilities and rainwater utilization capacity. However, some environmental groups have hit back -- arguing the airport construction has caused mass deforestation

The total project area is 76.5 million square meters. Courtesy Istanbul New Airport

There have also been accusations of poor working conditions and workers dying on site. Turkey's Ministry of Labor has blamed "health problems and traffic accidents" for 27 worker fatalities on site, according to reports.

The total cost of the project is roughly $12 billion. On Monday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan revealed the airport's name as being simply "Istanbul Airport."

New aviation center

The design won first prize in the "Future projects -- Infrastructure" category at the 2016 World Architectural Festival in Berlin. Courtesy Istanbul New Airport

By the end of December 2018, Turkey's main airport -- Ataturk International Airport -- will cease operations and Istanbul New Airport will become the city's aviation center.

There has also been widespread construction to connect the airport to the rest of the city -- via metro, road and high-speed train.

The team hope the airport will become one of the world's busiest within the next few years -- igniting the Turkish economy and generating jobs -- but time will tell whether the new project has a smooth takeoff or gets grounded in further delays.

Related content 6 of the best hotels in Istanbul

The significance of Istanbul New Airport

The team hopes the airport will become one of the world's busiest within the next few years. Courtesy Istanbul New Airport

CNN Travel asked three European aviation experts to weigh in on how Istanbul's new airport might impact the transport world.

'The project is unprecedented'

"From an airport planning perspective, the project is unprecedented, both in terms of its size (the eventual plan is for the airport to accommodate 200 million passengers, which is nearly double the size of the current largest airport in the world, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport) and, in particular, the speed with which the project was attempted.

To complete an airport project of this size in just three and a half years was extremely challenging, not least in terms of ensuring timely operational readiness of all related facilities, systems, procedures and equipment needed to run the airport (Berlin's Brandenburg Airport provides a stark example of what can go wrong with a new airport project like this).

Politically, it is important for Turkey, President Erdogan, and his party, opening on the 95th anniversary of the foundation of the Turkish Republic. Building a new airport is inevitably a vastly expensive undertaking (reportedly around $12 billion), and there have been concerns around the coincidence of this with a general downturn in the Turkish economy. There have also been ethical concerns raised about labor practices involving the thousands of workers needed to the complete the project on time.

While there will likely be challenges ahead, there are several factors acting in the airports favor, including the relatively strong existing domestic air transport market in Turkey (which rivals in the Middle East generally do not have to the same extent), and the fact that the airport is less likely to face the same degree of potentially constraining environmental legislation, which is generally the case for large airports in Western Europe.

Regardless, the airport will certainly have an impact (one way or another) for air transport both within the region and globally." --

Dr Thomas Budd, Lecturer in Airport Planning and Management, Centre for Air Transport Management, Cranfield University, UK

Related content How Asia's airports are changing the way we travel

'Aviation demand in Turkey is growing rapidly'

Planes on the tarmac at Istanbul Airport on October 29, ahead of the inauguration. Burak Kara/Getty Images Europe/Getty Images

"The new airport is taking over from Istanbul Atatürk Airport, which is already in the world's top 20 busiest airports. So effectively it's the same situation as if Atatürk (which is a congested airport with sometimes significant delays) was expanded. It's quite unusual to see a large airport expansion in Europe but much more in line with recent significant capacity expansions in the Middle East and Asia.

Projected growth rates in aviation demand between Europe and and the Middle East/Asia are very high (for example Boeing projects demand in 20 years' time between Europe and the Middle East to be 2.6 times what it is at present in terms of passenger-km, and 3 times for trips from Europe to China). So the new airport is trying to act as a hub for some of that traffic as well as serving increases in demand to and from Turkey (the Turkish aviation system has grown rapidly in recent years). In doing so it's competing with other large hub airports in the Middle East and Europe for long-distance passengers.

In the short term the main impact will be smaller delays for passengers traveling to, from and via Istanbul and greater flexibility for airlines using the airport, which may in turn mean some increases in overall passenger demand. Longer term, the outcome is more difficult to predict. But capacity expansion is typically constrained in European airports and much less so for Middle Eastern airports, so we might see some European airport transfer passenger traffic switch to Istanbul.

As to whether the airport will become one of the world's busiest: given that it is taking over all of the traffic from an existing airport that is already one of the world's busiest, this seems very likely. Aviation demand in Turkey is growing rapidly and long-distance passenger demand which could use Istanbul as a transfer airport is also growing rapidly. So I would be very surprised if it was not (barring war, civil unrest, etc.)."

Dr Lynnette Dray, Senior Research Associate, Bartlett School Env, Energy & Resources, Faculty of the Built Environment, University College, London

'It will directly compete with the current hub airports in the Middle East'

The terminal of the new Istanbul Airport, with a banner featuring Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Burak Kara/Getty Images Europe/Getty Images

"I think that the primary thought behind the new airport is that it will directly compete with the current hub airports in the Middle East such as in Doha and Dubai. I think it's got a very, very good chance of taking market share off them when it comes to single-stop itineraries that go from Asia to Europe and Europe to Asia. But also I think Istanbul is generally better situated. It can also act as a hub to some parts of Africa and indeed the current airport that's there, Atatürk, already does.

So direct flight is increasingly popular and of course a hub airport would have to compete with long-distance direct flights. So I think that might be an issue. And also the fact that this airport's being relocated about 50 kilometers north of the city or north of the current airport means that, I would suspect, there might be a slightly subdued demand for flights to and from Istanbul itself. And also there might be competition from the other airport in Istanbul, Sabiha Gokcen, which is going to end up being slightly closer to the population centers.

I can't see it struggling for passengers, given that the current airport that it's replacing has something like 63 million a year and I'd imagine most of those will transfer to the new airport. So that's already a substantial number of passengers that it's kind of inheriting off the back of the reputation of the previous airport. I would imagine that -- should they operationally run smoothly, so in other words should they have low connecting time, should they implement decent transport connections to the center of Istanbul -- then I can't see why they couldn't hit some of their targets pretty quickly."-------------------EasyJet plans electric planes by 2030





(CNN) — Passengers concerned about the impact of air travel on the environment could soon opt for a cleaner alternative.

EasyJet, the British-based budget airline, has pledged to develop a fleet of electric planes to cover short-haul routes by 2030, which would effectively reduce carbon emissions and noise from its operations.

The no-frills carrier is in partnership with US-based manufacturer Wright Electric to build battery-propelled jets for flights of less than two hours.

Founded in 2016, Wright Electric already has a two-seater electric plane and plans to begin flying a nine-seater next year. It has now applied for a patent on a motor for an electric airliner.

Electric 'flyways'

If successful, such an aircraft could be used on popular routes -- or electric "flyways," as easyJet refers to them -- such as London to Amsterdam.

The technological advancement is "moving fast," according to the airline's chief executive, Johan Lundgren.

Speaking from Amsterdam's Schiphol airport, he said: "From the two-seater aircraft, which is already flying, to the nine-seater, which will fly next year, electric flying is becoming a reality and we can now foresee a future that is not exclusively dependent on jet fuel.

"The target range of the electric plane is around 500 kilometers, which, within our current route portfolio, would mean a route like Amsterdam to London could become the first electric 'flyway.'"

Quieter and cheaper

Wright Electric predicts electric planes will be up to 50% quieter and 10% cheaper than traditional aircraft for airlines to buy and operate.

CEO Jeffrey Engler said: "We are excited about what the next year holds. EasyJet has been a fantastic partner and we look forward to helping introduce low-emissions, low-noise aviation, to Europe.

Related content 7 electric aircraft you could be flying in soon

Given the continuing rise in the price of jet fuel, many airlines would welcome a way to cut emissions, noise and travel costs.

As such, several high-profile engineering companies are also working on electric aircraft. Zunum, backed by Boeing, will use an engine turbine from France's Safran to power an electric motor for a hybrid plane, while Siemens has been working on developing electric motors for aircraft in collaboration with Airbus.-------------------At Yanar Dag, see why Azerbaijan is the 'Land of Fire'





Editor's Note — Editor's Note — CNN Travel's series often carry sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However, CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy.

(CNN) — "This fire has burned 4,000 years and never stopped," says Aliyeva Rahila. "Even the rain coming here, snow, wind -- it never stops burning."

Ahead, tall flames dance restlessly across a 10-meter stretch of hillside, making a hot day even hotter.

This is Yanar Dag -- meaning "burning mountainside" -- on Azerbaijan 's Absheron Peninsula, where Rahila works as a tour guide.

A side effect of the country's plentiful natural gas reserves, which sometimes leak to the surface, Yanar Dag is one of several spontaneously occurring fires to have fascinated and frightened travelers to Azerbaijan over the millennia.

Venetian explorer Marco Polo wrote of the mysterious phenomena when he passed through the country in the 13th century. Other Silk Road merchants brought news of the flames as they would trave l to other lands.

It's why the country earned the moniker the "land of fire."

Related content The mud volcano capital of the world

Ancient religion

Such fires were once plentiful in Azerbaijan, but because they led to a reduction of gas pressure underground, interfering with commercial gas extraction, most have been snuffed out.

Yanar Dag is one of the few remaining examples, and perhaps the most impressive.

At one time they played a key role in the ancient Zoroastrian religion, which was founded in Iran and flourished in Azerbaijan in the first millennium BCE.

l e v a r t

For Zoroastrians, fire is a link between humans and the supernatural world, and a medium through which spiritual insight and wisdom can be gained. It's purifying, life-sustaining and a vital part of worship.

Today, most visitors who arrive at the no-frills Yanar Dag visitors' center come for the spectacle rather than religious fulfillment.

The experience is most impressive at night, or in winter. When snow falls, the flakes dissolve in the air without ever touching the ground, says Rahila.

Despite the claimed antiquity of the Yanar Dag flames -- some argue that this particular fire may only have been ignited in the 1950s -- it's a long 30-minute drive north from the center of Baku just to see it. The center offers only a small cafe and there's not much else in the area.

Related content Naftalan: The Azerbaijan resort where guests bathe in crude oil

Ateshgah Fire Temple

For a deeper insight into Azerbaijan's history of fire worship, visitors should head east of Baku to Ateshgah Fire Temple.

"Since ancient times, they think that [their] god is here," says our guide, as we enter the pentagonal complex which was built in the 17th and 18th century by Indian settlers in Baku.

Fire rituals at this site date back to the 10th century or earlier. The name Ateshgah comes from the Persian for "home of fire" and the centerpiece of the complex is a cupola-topped altar shrine, built upon a natural gas vent.

A natural, eternal flame burned here on the central altar until 1969, but these days the fire is fed from Baku's main gas supply and is only lit for visitors.

The temple is associated with Zoroastrianism but it's as a Hindu place of worship that its history is better documented.

Merchants and ascetics

Built like a caravanserai-style travelers' inn, the complex has a walled courtyard surrounded by 24 cells and rooms.

These were variously used by pilgrims, passing merchants (whose donations were a vital source of income) and resident ascetics, some of whom submitted themselves to ordeals such as lying on caustic quicklime, wearing heavy chains, or keeping an arm in one position for years on end.

The temple fell out of use as a place of worship in the late 19th century, at a time when the development of the surrounding oil fields meant that veneration of Mammon was gaining a stronger hold.-------------------Hammams in Azerbaijan: Tips for taking a public bath





Editor's Note — Editor's Note — CNN Travel's series often carry sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However, CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy.

(CNN) — A place for cleansing and contemplation, for relaxation and conversation.

Azerbaijan 's old hammam culture may have waned in recent years, but many of the city's older residents recall with nostalgia the weekly ritual of visiting the city's public baths.

In the days of the shahs, the khans and even the Russian Empire, hammams in Azerbaijan were about much more than just getting clean.

"People got together, chatted, discussed. It was a social institution where you would relax and, everything that had built up inside of you, you'd talk about it and share it," says Kamil Ibragimov, head of the archaeological department in Baku's Old City administration.

Spiritual and physical needs

Azerbaijani cities in the Middle Ages were separated into small neighborhoods known as mehelle and each one had its own hammam and mosque, catering to both the spiritual and physical needs of local Muslims.

The hammam also played a key role in marriage. Long before the Soviets did away with religious conservatism, women's hammams were a natural hunting ground for mothers eager to get a closer look at potential young brides. Men on the other hand used the hammam to strike deals over tea and games of nard, the local version of backgammon.

Azerbaijan's hammams are strictly single sex. Tom Marsden

Above all, though, hammams were historically a means of maintaining public hygiene.

In the days of the Silk Road, for example, a hammam stood at both entrances to Baku's Old City and travelers could only enter after burning their old clothes and having a good scrub.

Hammam culture dipped a little in Soviet times as apartments were increasingly fitted with their own baths and showers, but hammams were still the first port of call whenever there was a water crisis.

Today there's still a loyal crowd of locals that can't live without a hammam, but before joining them here's a brief guide to its rules and rituals.

How to hammam

1. Male or female: Hamams in Azerbaijan are strictly segregated: Some are just for men, some for women and some for both but on different days. While this segregation rule has relaxed a little since the Middle Ages -- some male hammams now employ masseuses -- mixed bathing is still a complete no-no.

2. Wear a towel: As opposed to Russian "banyas" and Finnish saunas and despite the segregation rule, strutting around completely naked is not allowed. Instead a special towel called a fite must be worn at all times.

3. Be whipped: Given the former Russian influence over the Caucasus it's no surprise that bushy and aromatic birch twigs have also found their way into the Azerbaijani hammam.

Being lightly whipped by a companion in the parkhana, or steam room, stirs up the heat and aids breathing and circulation.

Related content The mud volcano capital of the world

4. Scrub hard: Central to the Azerbaijani hamam ritual is kise, in which a person called a kisechi scrubs all the grime from your body using a large abrasive glove. It may feel a little forceful at first, but will leave a light tingle across the body.

5. Steam room etiquette: A felt hat should also be worn to insulate you (and your hair) and prevent overheating. Scrubbing in the steam room is strictly prohibited.

6. Foamy soap: Another interesting ritual is something called kurpuk. Soap and water are whisked together with a special net to create big clouds of soapy foam which the kisechi rubs over every inch of your body.

7. Coffee, salt and honey: Another procedure is rubbing salt, coffee and honey into the skin. The salt helps you sweat, the coffee is aromatic and the honey soothes any wounds and inflammations.

8. Take your time: The bathing process itself shouldn't be rushed, but equally important is drinking tea afterward. There's no time limit on how long you can spend at the hammam so it's not unusual to sit, scrub and socialize over six to eight hours.

9. Admire the architecture: Azerbaijan's old hammams were built in the Eastern style common across Iran, Central Asia and the Middle East. A key feature is the cupola with holes at the top, superbly engineered to let air out but not let rainwater in. Older hammams were often built half-underground, keeping them warm in winter and cool in summer.

Most of Azerbaijan's old hammams stopped functioning a long time ago. Some are preserved as monuments while others have been converted into shops, bazaars or tea houses. But there are still a few places in central Baku to experience the steamy rituals of the past.

Agha Mikayil Hamami

Men and women are both welcome at Baku's oldest hammam. Tom Marsden

This is the number one choice for a quintessential Azerbaijani hammam experience. Built in the 18th century, Agha Mikayil is Baku's oldest functioning hammam. It operates separate days for men and women and is run by an enthusiastic team with lots of experience.

"I'm like an amphibian," longtime manager Orkhan Gasimov tells CNN Travel . "I can't live without a hamam."

Given its timeless appeal, Agha Mikayil has been used several times as a film location. A hammam scene from the 1956 film "If Not This One, Then That One" is especially popular.

Women's days are Mondays and Fridays, all the rest are for men. Basic entrance is just 10 manats (around $6), including limitless access to the steam room, showers and pool. Extra services cost as follows: body scrub -- 10 manats; coffee, salt and honey treatment -- 20 manats; massage -- 20 manats.

Agha Mikayil Hamami, 16, Kickik Qala, Icheri Sheher, Baku; +994-50-345-21-44

Agha Zeynal Hamami

Agha Zeynal Hamami caters to a local crowd. Tom Marsden

Agha Zeynal Hamami (also known as Prestige) dates back to Baku's late 19th-century oil boom. This was originally a men's hammam, switched to being women-only during the Soviet era, and is now once again exclusively for men.

Today this hammam has a local clientele, offers all the traditional treatments and still breathes the spirit of the past.

Prices: entrance (including steam room and baths) -- 12 manats; 30-minute massage -- 15 manats; the full package costs about 60 manats ($35).

Agha Zeynal Hamami, 5 Saftar Quliyev Street, Icheri Sheher, Baku; +994-55-639-19-99 // +994-55-434-65-35

She-Bi Hamami

Elegant detailing at She-Bi Hamami. Tom Marsden

This 19th-century hammam -- known until recently as Gasim Bey Hammam, after its millionaire founder Gasim Bey -- was exclusively for women for most of its existence.

It's now a men-only hammam and is especially popular with civil servants, thanks to its location near four government ministries.

The main attractions are its elegant central pool and a locals-only feel. It offers all the usual procedures (steam room, whipping, pool, scrub, mochalka -- a smoothing wash with soap -- and massage), plus there's an in-house barber, café and a booth for pedicures.

Prices are 12 manats for entrance (includes unlimited time in the steam room and pool); 12 manats for scrubbing, 20 manats for an hour-long massage.

She-Bi Hamami, 41 Murtuza Mukhtarov Street, Baku; +994-50-540-08-41

Akhund Hammam

There's no time limit at hammams, so relax as long as you like. Tom Marsden

Further along Murtuza Mukhtarov Street is a great example of the age-old link between mosques and hammams. Almost opposite the green-domed Haji Sultan Ali mosque is the men-only Akhund Hammam, named in honor of the akhund (cleric) that lobbied for its construction way back in 1887.

Prices: entrance and use of the sauna -- 10 manats; a 30-minute scrub -- 12 manats; and a 30-minute massage -- 14 manats.

Akhund Hammam, 141 Murtuza Mukhtarov Street; +994-12-595-50-59

Related content Azerbaijan: What to see and do in the Land of Fire

Tezebay Hammam

For Tom Marsden's story about Azerbaijan hammams (CNN Travel sponsorship: Destination Azerbaijan) Tom Marsden

This hammam's building may date back to 1886, but it's only been functioning as a hammam for the last 20 years. The eclectic mix of souvenirs, stuffed animals and dim lighting create a wacky ambiance and make the place feel part hammam, part museum. Look out for the portraits of Lenin and Stalin and the small statue of Donald Trump.

While less historic, its services and equipment are a little more upmarket. This is reflected in the prices - 23 manats covers entrance while the average all-inclusive package is 86 manats. This includes Russian, Turkish and Finnish saunas, pool and baths, body scrub, a half-hour massage and veniki (birch-twig whipping).

Tezebay is especially popular with stag and hen parties. Men's and women's hammams are housed in adjacent buildings.

Tezebay Hammam , 30 Sheikh Shamil Street, Baku; +994-12-492-64-40-------------------The mud volcano capital of the world





Editor's Note — Editor's Note — CNN Travel's series often carry sponsorship originating from the countries and regions we profile. However, CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports. Read the policy.

(CNN) — Stretching to the horizon, the gray-white earth rises in peaks like a well-whipped meringue petrified into mud and rock.

A keen wind whips these otherworldly hills, while the land underfoot is cracked and scaly.

This could be Mars. But it's Azerbaijan , the mud volcano capital of the world.

Oil-rich region

There are more than 400 volcanoes in this oil-rich country balanced between Europe and Asia, with more being discovered all the time.

Ten years ago, a 12,000-hectare State Nature Reserve was founded on the Absheron Peninsula near the capital Baku.

In July 2018, scientists from Azerbaijan's Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources took CNN Travel on an off-road tour.

Clattering up the precipitous slopes in an off-road vehicle is like a firmer version of the dune-bashing safaris popular next door in the Middle East. But the most thrilling sights are still to come.

We start our tour beside the mouth of Deveboynu volcano, or "Neck of the Camel." The land around is parched, but inside the crater, a muddy slurry -- called mud breccia -- is bubbling gently.

The hills may look peaceful, but below this humped, reptilian landscape, the Earth is breathing and turning like a slumbering beast.

Related content Azerbaijan: What to see and do in the Land of Fire

l e v a r t

Where tectonic plates collide

Mud volcanoes are usually found in subduction zones -- the parts of the globe where tectonic plates collide, sometimes causing earthquakes, tsunamis and violent eruptions.

Pockets of subterranean gas force their way to the surface, belching out methane and a muddy mix of water and oil.

Mud volcanoes never grow to the size of regular volcanoes. Most are small, ever-changing landforms, often accompanied by peculiar sculptures formed by the spewed out clumps of clay.

These whimsical shapes, says Jeyhun Pashayev, director of the reserve, are "like a picture made by a child."

Strange beauty

"When there are mud volcanoes, it means there are carbohydrogen resources in the deep," explains Pashayev. "As you see, there are lot of mud volcanoes in Azerbaijan which means there are a lot of oil resources."

The arid lands of the Absheron Peninsula might not be as fresh and lush as the mountainous north, but they have their own strange beauty.

This is the region richest in natural resources: both for oil and for the mud breccia, which is used in the chemical and construction industries.

"About 20 of the 50 minerals used in cement" are to be found in the volcanic mud, says Pashayev -- which meant that before the reserve was signed into existence, people regularly stole mud from the site for home building projects.

As we set out on the road again to our next volcanic field, Pashayev gestures towards a huge factory on the horizon, with a large hill of mud to its side. "This, Garadagh, is the richest part of Baku. Around 90% of the stones are being produced here for building the houses. Depending on the quality, it costs from 50 cents to 3 manats ($1.77) per stone."

Pashayev and his team hand-make signs to warn off trespassers on the reserve. Maureen O'Hare/CNN

Mud-bathing

Unlike regular volcanoes, there's no magma or lava, so the liquid mud isn't hot -- instead it usually keeps to a temperate 22/23 C (72 F).

That balminess means that some mud volcanoes are suitable for bathing.

Volcanic clay is sometimes used in the treatment of skin conditions, as well as rheumatism and diseases related to the nervous system.

Pashayev explains that during the Soviet era, the volcanic mud was sometimes used to create casts to treat broken bones.

"Also, you can get super results using the mud volcanoes for the skin," he claims. "You can use [the mud] and get good results, even if you have scars. If the cosmetology doctor can't disappear the scars, mud volcanoes can do this!"

Radioactivity

However, not every gray puddle is skin-friendly.

"Because it comes from deep," says Pashayev, some volcanoes "come with radioactive material. It's not a joke."

Pashayev's team monitors the levels of radioactivity regularly, with safety certification being awarded on an annual basis.

The subterranean world has fascinated people around the globe for millennia, and the strange, violent and seemingly inexplicable behavior of mud volcanoes has long captivated the Azerbaijani people.

The country is known as the Land of Fire -- while Baku is the City of Winds -- and some of the gas leaks in this oil-rich region are constantly on fire, such as at the perpetually burning mountainside of Yanar Dag.

It's believed that the ancient Zoroastrian religion, which centers on fire worship, was closely connected to this phenomena.

In 2001, Lokbutan volcano some 15 kilometers from Baku erupted, sending flames close to 50 feet in the air.

Related content Naftalan: The Azerbaijan resort where guests bathe in crude oil

'A mystic thing'

The ever-bubbling cauldron of Pilpili Gardag. Maureen O'Hare/CNN

"Mud volcanoes are a mystic thing," says Pashayev. Some years ago, a Danish sound archivist came to the reserve "with a huge device like a piano" to record the sounds from within the volcano.

What Pashayev heard shocked him. "I swear, I thought that this is Hell. I heard human noises -- really. Imagine thousands of people, crying 'help us!' from the deep."

With a similarly evocative turn of phrase, Pashayev also compares the wind sighing through a mud sculpture to the sound made "when you cut the head off a cow" -- a common sight on the backstreets of Baku until butchery regulations were changed earlier this year.

And if the Azerbaijani landscape seems otherworldly, that could be because conditions here aren't dissimilar to Mars.

A number of possible mud volcanoes have been found on Mars , suggesting the presence -- at one time -- of water, and therefore the possibility of life.

'Millions of snakes'

"There are six types of mud volcano," explains Pashayev. "Active. Not active. Oil-producing. Underwater. Island mud volcano. And destroyed mud volcano."

There are around 140 underwater mud volcanoes in Azerbaijan and there are six island volcanoes under the reserve's jurisdiction -- although explains scientist Anar Baghiriv, the team lacks the resources to visit them.

But on one of the island volcanoes, Pashayev explains, the strangest sight isn't the bubbling mud. "From 100 meters, you see that the island is shaking. But when you go close, you see millions of snakes, can you imagine? Millions."

So covered is the island with sea snakes, adds Baghiriv, "You cannot find a place to put your foot."

What lies beneath

Pilpili Gardag is the last stop on our tour. Once we're ushered past the security guard, it's a steep walk uphill to the most dramatic volcano yet.

The slick surface of the mud glistens in the searing July sunshine, with huge gray bubbles forming and then bursting with a satisfying plup.

Mud volcano eruptions vary enormously, from those that quietly, continuously pour out slow streams of slurry, to explosive eruptions that expel thousands of cubic meters at once.

In Azerbaijan, says Pashayev, we have "different sizes, different views, different sculptures. We have all the types, all the forms."

The Guinness Book of Records lists the world's largest mud volcano as being an Azerbaijani one, measuring one kilometer across the base and several hundred kilometers in height.

At Pilipili Gardag, the volatile lunar landscape, with the sun bouncing white off the bleached-out clay and the summer heat sliding towards 40 C (104 F), has an uncanny majesty.

But the real mysteries, the churning, living wonders, are in the many shifting layers beneath our feet.-------------------Breaking News, Latest News and Videos





-------------------Breaking News, Latest News and Videos





-------------------Why Dubai is a 'playground for design'





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------Basketball robots and flying cops





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------The extraordinary man-made feats of Dubai





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------The untold story of Dubai's first skyscraper





In 1979, the tallest building between Mumbai and Greece was built in Dubai's desert. The city's first skyscraper came to symbolize its ambitions on the world stage.

Source: CNN-------------------Emirati children prepare for a robotic future





DIY robot kits by Dubai startup Junkbot are an educational resource that could help the next generation build their engineering skills.

Source: CNN-------------------Dubai's racing to build the world's first hyperloop





As competition for the world's first operational hyperloop heats up, CNN asks how the super-fast transport system could change lives and business in the UAE.

Source: CNN-------------------Vertical farms on the rise in the UAE





Dubai now has its first commercial indoor vertical farm. Find out how it could change the food industry in years to come.

Source: CNN-------------------Huda Kattan: The face that launched a billion-dollar brand





Cosmetics mogul Huda Kattan is arguably one of the most influential women in the Middle East, but her ultimate goal is to "own the beauty industry."

Source: CNN-------------------How Dubai is integrating AI into everyday life





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------University blockchain experiment aims for top marks





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------The business of Ramadan: When religion and capital converge in the UAE





For the UAE's business elites, working after dark is a whole different game during the month of Ramadan.

Source: CNN-------------------Why Dubai is all in on drones





From delivery to aviation, Dubai is at the forefront of drone experimentation. Here's a look at what the future holds for drones, and the companies leading the charge.

Source: CNN-------------------Why Dubai is hungry for food delivery apps





Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.-------------------UK faces constitutional crisis over Brexit legal advice, Labour warns






Image copyright Getty Images

The UK faces a "constitutional crisis" if Theresa May does not publish the full legal advice on her Brexit deal on Monday, Labour has warned.

The PM says the advice is confidential. but some MPs think ministers do not want to admit it says the UK could be indefinitely tied to EU customs rules.

Ex-foreign secretary Boris Johnson has joined calls for its publication, which critics say could sink the PM's deal.

Attorney General Geoffrey Cox will make a statement about it on Monday.

He is set to publish a reduced version of the legal advice - despite calls from MPs from all parties to publish a full version.

His statement to the House of Commons will be followed by five days of debate on the deal.

MPs say the statement from the attorney general does not respect a binding Commons vote last month, which required the government to lay before Parliament "any legal advice in full".

Labour is planning to join forces with other parties, including the DUP, who keep Mrs May in power, to initiate contempt of Parliament proceedings unless the government backs down.

Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer told Sky News: "If they don't produce [the advice] tomorrow (Monday) then we will start contempt proceedings. This will be a collision course between the government and Parliament."

His shadow cabinet colleague Barry Gardiner told the BBC's Andrew Marr show the prime minister faced a "very serious constitutional crisis" if she refused, and the only answer was a general election.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Michael Gove: "I'm supporting the prime minister"

According to the Sunday Times, Mr Cox told ministers in a letter the only way out of the Northern Irish "backstop" agreement would be to sign a new trade deal, a process which could take years.

Brexit-supporting MPs say it could mean an open-ended commitment for the UK, forcing it to remain in the EU's customs union while details of the deal are being worked out.

Downing Street has not responded to claims by the Daily Telegraph that a letter from Mrs May's chief Brexit adviser, Olly Robbins, warned her it was a "bad outcome" with no legal "guarantee" Britain would be able to exit the mechanism.

Mr Johnson, who resigned from government over the PM's Brexit vision, described the arrangement in his weekly Daily Telegraph column as "a great steel trap that is about to clamp its jaws around our hind limbs and prevent our escape".

The DUP's Sammy Wilson said it was important for MPs to know exactly what they are voting for and the implications for Northern Ireland.

"What we need to know is what legal advice has been given to the government about the extent of how Northern Ireland will be stuck in the backstop… [and] how do you get out of this backstop," he said.

The Commons debate on Theresa May's deal is due to get under way on Tuesday.

But if contempt proceedings were begun by Labour, it would be up to Commons Speaker John Bercow to decide whether a debate and vote should be held first.

'Fight of her life'

Mrs May faces the fight of her political life to get MPs to back the deal in a Commons vote on 11 December.

Ministers insist they can persuade enough of them to change their mind because, they claim, the alternative is a no-deal Brexit or "no Brexit at all".

On Sunday, the Brexit-supporting Environment Secretary Michael Gove warned MPs there could be another EU referendum if they failed to back the PM's deal.

And on Monday, Home Secretary Sajid Javid will attempt to sell the deal by stressing that it will bring an end to EU free movement in the UK and replace it with a skills-based immigration regime.

"In just over a week's time, MPs will vote on the Brexit deal the government has secured. My message to them is this: let's take this chance to deliver an immigration system truly underpinned by public support," he will say.

Meanwhile, support for a further referendum is growing - on Saturday science minister Sam Gyimah quit the government to join the People's Vote campaign.

And a cross-party group of 17 MPs, in a letter published in the Observer, also called for Parliament to support another referendum at the earliest opportunity.-------------------Windrush: Home Office criticised after deportees not contacted






Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Caroline Nokes, immigration minister, said deportees can ring the Windrush helpline or visit the government website

Campaigners have accused the Home Office of a lack of "decency" after it emerged dozens of people deported to Commonwealth countries have not been contacted by the Windrush task force.

Ministers said "no specific attempt" had been made to approach 49 people deported to Ghana and Nigeria in 2017.

The Home Office says it is up to Commonwealth citizens to seek information about their status.

MPs said it showed the government had learned nothing from the scandal.

The Windrush scandal was uncovered earlier this year, after many people from Commonwealth countries who had legally lived in Britain for decades were wrongly classed as illegal immigrants and deported.

They had been encouraged by the UK government to settle in Britain from the late 1940s until 1973.

However, although they had been granted indefinite leave to remain in the UK, some immigrants did not have formal paperwork confirming their residency status.

It meant when the Home Office embarked on its so-called "hostile environment" policy designed to make staying in the UK more difficult, some Commonwealth immigrants were wrongly deported.

Their problems were compounded by a Home Office decision, in 2010, to destroy their landing cards - often the only record of their immigration status.

Following a public outcry, the government set up a task force to help people formalise their right to remain in the UK.

Thousands of people have now contacted the task force and received documents confirming their right to stay in Britain.

However, following parliamentary questions from Green Party MP Caroline Lucas, Home Office ministers now admit there are 49 people who have still not been informed by the government that the task force exists.

The 49 were deported to Ghana and Nigeria between March and September 2017 - before the Windrush scandal erupted.

Satbir Singh, the chief executive of the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, said: "If the Home Office has the capacity to deny somebody their rights, to separate them from their loved ones and remove them from the country, surely it has the capacity to find them, to apologise and to help them come home.

"But this isn't a question of capacity alone, it's a question of decency, and yet another example of a department going out of its way to avoid doing the right thing.

"As a country surely we can do so much better than this."

Campaigner Zita Holbourne, who founded anti-austerity organisation Black Activists Rising Against Cuts and is the vice president of trade union PCS, called it "a disgrace".

'Reckless and incompetent'

Ms Lucas, who is MP for Brighton Pavilion, said: "It doesn't seem much to ask for the government to tell people they've kicked out of the country that the Windrush task force exists.

"Ministers know their treatment of the Windrush generation is a national disgrace. That they haven't bothered to contact people who've been deported suggests the government hasn't learned anything from the public backlash against their hostile environment."

Shadow home secretary Diane Abbott said this most recent case showed how "reckless and incompetent" the Home Office's immigration policy was.

"People from almost every Commonwealth country have been treated badly under this Government's hostile environment," she said. "It's clear these injustices will continue if ministers don't even know what's going on."

Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Ed Davey said anyone who may have been wrongly deported should be contacted and told how to apply to return and receive compensation.

"In these cases, the Home Office seems to be waiting around for people to contact them - even though they may not have the means or information to do so. That's an utter disgrace."

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Windrush scandal: A lawyer's advice for victims

Home Office minister Ms Nokes, in her written ministerial answer to Ms Lucas' question, said: "The Home Office has not made a specific attempt to inform those 49 people of the Windrush taskforce.

"The Home Office announcements relating to Commonwealth citizens can be found at www.gov.uk/Windrush.

"This website is regularly updated with information about how individuals who believe they qualify under the Windrush criteria can apply for status under the Windrush Settlement Scheme.

"Assistance is also available through the Windrush Taskforce helpline on freephone 0800678 1925 or by email at commonwealthtaskforce@homeoffice.gsi.gov.uk."

A Home Office spokesman said: "Any individual who believes they are protected under the provisions of the 1971 Immigration Act is able to contact the Windrush Taskforce, who will help to identify their current status.

"We have always been clear that the Windrush Scheme is not restricted to the Windrush generation or people from the Caribbean, but it is right that applicants for citizenship need to satisfy the good character and residence requirements."

Were you deported to Ghana or Nigeria in 2017? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.

Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:-------------------MI6 chief uses speech to issue warning to Russia






Image copyright Bnd Image caption Earlier this year, Alex Younger, right, joined his French and German compatriots to issue a joint call for continued cooperation after Brexit

The head of the UK's MI6 intelligence service will warn Russia "not to underestimate... our capabilities" in a rare speech later.

Alex Younger will describe how MI6 exposed the perpetrators of the Novichok poisoning in Salisbury.

He will warn that Britain's adversaries view themselves as being in a state of "perpetual confrontation" with the UK.

And he will talk of the need for "fourth-generation espionage", fusing human skills with technical innovation.

At a speech at St Andrew's University Mr Younger will encourage students to consider joining MI6, saying tackling modern adversaries who use new technology to probe UK institutions and defences will require "a mindset that mobilises diversity and empowers the young".

In the second public speech by the man known as "C" in the four years since his appointment, Mr Younger is also expected to re-emphasize the importance of strengthening security ties in Europe.

'Active' threat

He will say Britain's spies have thwarted multiple Islamic State plots originating overseas, often in partnership with European allies.

And Mr Younger will talk about facing "adversaries who regard themselves as being in a state of perpetual confrontation" with the UK.

He will urge Russia "or any other state intent on subverting our way of life not to underestimate our determination and our capabilities, or those of our allies".

The address comes at a time of heightened tensions between the UK and Russia. In the most recent incident on Saturday, British Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson called on the public to report suspicious activity near military sites, after a Russian TV crew prompted an alert at an Army base.

Earlier this year GCHQ chief Jeremy Fleming said Moscow posed a "real" and "active" threat to the international community in the wake of the Salisbury poisoning. Russia denies any involvement.-------------------Climate change: 'World at crossroads' warning as key talks begin






Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Climate change: How 1.5C could change the world

Four senior figures behind efforts to limit climate change have warned that the planet "is at a crossroads" as key talks opened a day early in Poland.

In a rare move, four former presidents of the United Nations-sponsored talks called for decisive action.

The meeting in Katowice is the most critical on climate change since the 2015 Paris agreement.

Experts say that drastic cuts in emissions will be needed if the world is to reach targets agreed in Paris.

Negotiators at the COP24 conference convened a day early because they are under pressure to make progress.

Meanwhile, the World Bank has announced $200bn in funding over five years to support countries taking action against climate change.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Climate activist: 'It's high time that Poland phased out coal'

What's so different about this meeting?

This Conference of the Parties (COP) is the first to be held since the landmark Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on limiting global temperature rise to 1.5C came out in October.

The IPCC stated that to keep to the 1.5C goal, governments would have to slash emissions of greenhouse gases by 45% by 2030.

But a recent study showed that CO2 emissions are on the rise again after stalling for four years.

In an unprecedented move, four former UN climate talks presidents issued a statement on Sunday, calling for urgent action.

They say "decisive action in the next two years will be crucial".

"What ministers and other leaders say and do in Katowice at COP24 will help determine efforts for years to come and either bring the world closer to meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement - including protecting those most vulnerable to climate change - or push action further down the road.

"Any delay will only make it harder and more expensive to respond to climate change."

The statement was issued by Frank Bainimarama of Fiji, Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco, Laurent Fabius of France and Manuel Pulgar Vidal of Peru.

Meanwhile, the gap between what countries say they are doing and what needs to be done has never been wider.

"The IPCC report made crystal clear that every bit of warming matters, especially for the least developed countries," said Gebru Jember Endalew, who chairs the group of poorest nations in the negotiations.

"It also gave some hope by confirming that limiting global warming to 1.5C is still possible. Here in Katowice, we must work constructively together to ensure that goal can become a reality."

In fact, so urgent is the task that some negotiators started their meetings on Sunday, a day before the official start.

Why is Sir David Attenborough attending?

The celebrated broadcaster and naturalist will be sitting in what's termed the "people's seat" at these talks.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sir David Attenborough: Climate change is "the biggest threat to this planet in thousands of years"

The idea is for the occupant to represent the millions of people around the world who are being affected by climate change.

At the opening ceremony, politicians will hear Sir David give a speech made up of climate change comments submitted by the public.

Will global leaders be attending?

Yes, some 29 heads of state and government are due to give statements at the opening of the meeting.

The number is way down on the stellar cast that turned up in Paris in 2015, which perhaps indicates that many are seeing this as more a technical stage on the road to tackling climate change than a big bang moment.

But for the likes of China and the EU, the meeting is critical. They will want to show that international co-operation can still work even in the age of President Trump.

How years compare with the 20th Century average 2017 10 warmest years 10 coldest years 20th Century average Hotter Colder Months J F M A M J J A S O N D Source: NOAA Replay

So will cutting carbon be the main focus of the meeting?

Rather than spending all their time working on how to increase ambitions to cut carbon, conference delegates are likely to focus on trying to finalise the technical rules of how the Paris agreement will work.

Image copyright FABRICE COFFRINI Image caption A collage of children's drawing about climate change laid out on a glacier in Switzerland

While the agreement was ratified in record time by more than 180 countries in 2016, it doesn't become operational until 2020.

Before then, delegates must sort out common rules on measuring, reporting and verifying (checking to avoid the misreporting of) greenhouse gas emissions, and on how climate finance is going to be provided.

"The rulebook is the thing that will absorb most of the negotiators' capacity at this year's COP," said Camilla Born, from the climate change think tank, E3G.

"It's no surprise, as agreeing the Paris rules is both technically and politically a complicated task - but it is worth it!"

Right now, that rule book runs to several hundred pages with thousands of brackets, indicating areas of dispute.

But what about limiting emissions?

Under the Paris agreement, each country decides for itself the actions it will take when it comes to cutting carbon. Some observers believe that the changed mood and the urgency of the science will prompt action.

"We are hoping that at COP24, countries will make declarations of how they will raise their ambitions by 2020. This is a very important moment," said Fernanda Carvalho with campaign group WWF.

"Two years is a short time span for that to happen. Countries need to act fast."

Why is the UN process slow-moving?

There is much frustration with the snail-like pace, especially among some campaigners who feel that the scale of the threat posed by rising temperatures hasn't been fully grasped by politicians.

Image copyright HANNA FRANZEN Image caption Greta Thunberg, who has refused to go to school in Sweden in protest over climate change, will be attending COP24

"Governments across the world have completely failed to protect their citizens," said a spokesperson for Extinction Rebellion, the social movement that pushes for radical change on climate issues.

"Instead, they have pursued quick profit and big business. We need this to change. At COP24, we want to ensure that the focus is not just on getting the technical Paris rulebook as robust as possible, but also that governments do not lose sight of the bigger picture. We are not doing enough."

Others involved in the UN process say that real progress is being made in tackling one of the most complex problems ever faced by the world.

"You have to recognise that things that negotiators and others have worked so hard to put in place are making a real difference," said Achim Steiner, who heads the United Nations Development Programme.

"We have a $300bn renewable energy economy at work today - it's not peanuts, it's an energy revolution that has unfolded on the back of, yes, a sometimes sticky climate negotiation process."

How much of a role will money play in making progress in Poland?

Many developing countries see progress on issues around finance to be critical to moving forward. They have been promised $100bn every year from 2020 as part of the Paris agreement.

Some are sceptical about what they see as foot-dragging and obfuscation by richer countries when it comes to handing over the cash. Negotiators say that moving forward on finance is the lynchpin of progress in this meeting.

"A key finding of the recent IPCC report, and one that has often been overlooked, is that without a dramatic increase in the provision of climate finance, the possibility of limiting warming to 2C (to say nothing of the safer 1.5C goal), will irretrievably slip away," said Amjad Abdulla, chief negotiator for the Alliance of Small Island States.

Are there concerns the meeting is in a country reliant on coal?

Yes - among government negotiators and observers alike. The fact that the conference is taking place in a strong coal region, in a city that is home to the biggest coal company in the EU, is troubling to many.

Poland is highly dependent on coal, getting close to 80% of its electricity from the fossil fuel - and the widespread use of lower quality coal to heat homes, especially in the colder months, leads to smog and respiratory illnesses.

However, the Polish government says that it is sticking with the fuel, and has announced that it is planning to invest next year in the construction of a new coal mine in Silesia.

This bullish approach has drawn condemnation from some.

"We hope that the Polish government will seize this opportunity to embrace and promote a just transition that guarantees that the energy system is transformed while leaving no one behind," said Sébastien Duyck, a senior attorney at the Centre for International Environmental Law.

"Unfortunately, this week's announcement by the [meeting's] Polish presidency that it will include coal companies as sponsors of the COP sends a very worrisome signal before the conference even begins."

Will President Trump and the US feature at all?

Although the US has withdrawn from the Paris agreement, it cannot leave until 2020, so its negotiators have been taking part in meetings and have not obstructed the process. America is expected to participate in COP24.

However, given the President's well known love of coal, it has been reported that the White House will once again organise a side event promoting fossil fuels. A similar event at the last COP provoked outrage from many delegates.-------------------Fellowship of the ring: Newly-engaged couple thank NYPD






Image copyright NYPD Image caption John proposed to girlfriend Daniella in New York - but a short while later they lost the engagement ring

Be it fate, or a stroke of good luck, Daniella Anthony and John Drennan are soon to be reunited with their precious piece of jewellery.

"We are so happy, we can't believe it," the young couple said after discovering their lost engagement ring had been found.

The pair, from Peterborough in the UK, had flown to New York to celebrate their 10-year dating anniversary.

Mr Drennan said he'd put a lot of thought into the proposal.

Speaking to BBC News on Sunday evening, he said he had carried the ring around in his pocket for two days before finding the right moment.

"I want to clarify that I did not propose over a grate in Times Square - that's where we lost it," Mr Drennan said.

The momentous occasion had taken place in Central Park a few hours earlier.

"The time was right. There were autumn leaves everywhere and not many people."

Daniella said yes straight away but they both knew the ring wasn't the right size.

"I tried to tell John it was too big, but he insisted I wear it," Ms Anthony said.

"I told her it was fine. I was just so happy to finally call her my fiancée after all this time," Mr Drennan added.

The happy couple decided to grab a bite to eat and see the Christmas Spectacular in Times Square when the ring escaped.

"We were walking back to the hotel. I can still visualise the ring. Bouncing once… bouncing twice and then it was gone," Mr Drennan said.

Daniella and John called police straight away and officers were able to jar the grate open with a crow bar.

They looked underneath, with the aid of torches, for at least two hours

But it was to no avail.

Image copyright NYPD

"We just presumed it was gone. In the end, we had no choice but to walk away and try to enjoy the rest of our weekend," Mr Drennan said.

Daniella was inconsolable and so they left without leaving their names with police, feeling hopeless.

They arrived home on Sunday and said they were planning on going straight to the jewellery store to buy another ring.

"I couldn't stand the thought of her being without one," Mr Drennan said.

But just moments after they touched down at the airport, a friend alerted them to the social media campaign being driven by the New York Police Department.

Police had posted the CCTV footage of the couple trying to get the ring from the grate and used Twitter to appeal to find them.

"Hey guys, is this you?" the friend asked the couple.

"We could not believe it, we really thought it was gone," Ms Anthony said.

"We don't use Twitter - we had absolutely no idea this was going on. But we are so happy."

"We are so thankful to everyone - especially the New York Police Department and everyone who shared our story," the couple said.

They also wanted to send a heartfelt thank you to everyone who stopped to help look at the scene.

There was one family in particular that stayed on for moral support.

"They had a little girl who gave Daniella a big hug and told her not to worry," Mr Drennan said.

"At the time, that hug meant everything."

The couple will now liaise with the NYPD to get the ring safely returned to their home in Peterborough.-------------------Michelle Obama and me: How former US first lady changed my life






When Michelle Obama hugged the Queen

The former First Lady says she was not aware of "royal protocol" when she placed her arm around the Queen in 2009.-------------------Sacked vegan claims discrimination in landmark case






Image caption Jordi Casamitjana campaigns to encourage others to become vegans

A tribunal is to be asked to decide whether veganism is a "philosophical belief" akin to a religion, in a landmark legal action.

Jordi Casamitjana says he was sacked by the League Against Cruel Sports after disclosing it invested pension funds in firms involved in animal testing.

He claims he was discriminated against, and the tribunal will now decide if veganism should be protected in law.

The League Against Cruel Sports says he was dismissed for gross misconduct.

It denies the sacking was because of his veganism.

Mr Casamitjana says he is an "ethical" vegan.

"Some people only eat a vegan diet but they don't care about the environment or the animals, they only care about their health," he told the BBC.

"I care about the animals and the environment and my health and everything.

"That's why I use this term 'ethical veganism' because for me veganism is a belief and affects every single aspect of my life."

Plant-based

Dietary vegans and ethical vegans both eat a plant-based diet.

However, ethical vegans try to exclude all forms of animal exploitation, for instance avoiding wearing or buying clothing made from wool or leather, or toiletries from companies that carry out animal testing.

They may refer to "companion animals" rather than "pets", and will avoid zoos or other environments where they consider animals are exploited.

Mr Casamitjana worked for the animal welfare charity the League Against Cruel Sports and claims that, to his surprise, he discovered it was investing its pension funds in companies that carried out animal testing.

He says he drew this to the attention of his managers.

When nothing changed, he informed other employees and was sacked as a result.

He is now bringing a legal case, claiming he was discriminated against on the basis of his vegan belief.

'Factually wrong'

In a statement, the League Against Cruel Sports said: "Mr Casamitjana was dismissed from his position because of gross misconduct.

"To link his dismissal with issues pertaining to veganism is factually wrong.

"Mr Casamitjana is seeking to use his veganism as the reason for his dismissal. We emphatically reject this claim."

Image copyright Jaysee Costa Image caption Mr Casamitjana supports a range of ethical and animal rights causes

However, in a hearing next March, an employment tribunal will, for the first time, determine whether veganism is a "philosophical belief" protected by law.

If the tribunal decides that it is, the discrimination claim will proceed to a full trial.

"Religion or belief" is one of nine "protected characteristics" covered by the Equality Act 2010.

The others, all ranked equally, are:

age

disability

gender reassignment

marriage and civil partnership

pregnancy and maternity

race

sex

sexual orientation

It is unlawful for an employer to discriminate directly, by treating an employee less favourably than others because of their religion or belief.

Harassment and victimisation on grounds of religion or belief are also unlawful, as is indirect discrimination, by applying a criterion or practice that disadvantages employees of a particular religion or belief unless there is an objective justification.

To qualify as a philosophical belief, veganism must:

be genuinely held

be a belief as to a weighty and substantial aspect of human life and behaviour

attain a certain level of cogency, seriousness, cohesion and importance

be worthy of respect in a democratic society, not be incompatible with human dignity and not conflict with the fundamental rights of others

be a belief, not an opinion or viewpoint based on the present state of information available

If Mr Casamitjana succeeds in his hearing, the consequences for vegans and those with other philosophical beliefs could be life-changing.

His solicitor, Peter Daly, of Bindmans LLP, said: "If we are successful, we will achieve a judgment which formally recognises the protected status of ethical veganism and which could then be used as the basis to combat discrimination against vegans in employment, in the provision of goods and services, and in education.

"This is therefore a landmark case."

But Nick Spencer, senior fellow at think tank Theos, which stimulates debate about religion in society, warns of dangers in unrestricted recognition and legal protection of people's beliefs.

"The irony in all this is that rights are intended to be liberating but if we're all turned into rights bearers, my rights clashing with your rights, we end up having to appeal to the courts to sort out our differences and that can become oppressive for everybody," Mr Spencer told the BBC.

Image caption Clashing rights could become "oppressive", warns Nick Spencer, of Theos

Figures from the Vegan Society, which supports Mr Casamitjana, suggest veganism is on the rise.

The society says there are currently 600,000 vegans in Britain, up from about 150,000 in 2014.from the Food Standards Agency's Food and You surveys, Ipsos Mori and the National Centre for Social Science Research.

"For many people, veganism is a deeply held belief," says Louise Davies, Vegan Society head of campaigns, policy and research.

"This could be a landmark ruling that will not only recognise the validity and importance of veganism but also confirm that the needs of vegans in their employment and their everyday lives must be taken seriously."

Mr Casamitjana says he has been discriminated against many times because of his vegan beliefs.

He said: "It is important for all the vegans to know that if they want to talk about veganism, they are protected and no-one will say, 'Shut up.'

"It is important that the law protects vegans."-------------------Angela Merkel's 'PM cheat sheet' amuses Australia






Image copyright EPA Image caption German Chancellor Angela Merkel meets Australian PM Scott Morrison at the G20 Summit

As Australia's fifth prime minister since 2013, Scott Morrison could probably forgive German Chancellor Angela Merkel for doing some quick study before their first meeting.

As the pair sat down together at the G20 summit, cameras captured Mrs Merkel reading an apparent briefing note about Mr Morrison. It also carried his image.

Many watching on from afar were amused, not least people in Australia.

Its government denied that the incident was embarrassing for either nation.

"Angela Merkel's department, no doubt... was simply ensuring that the chancellor was properly briefed," Australian Trade Minister Simon Birmingham said on Monday.

Image copyright EPA Image caption Mrs Merkel's notes featured a picture of Mr Morrison

Mr Birmingham said it was common for such briefing notes to feature a picture alongside a biography.

However, many noted that the scene appeared a bit awkward.

"Who is this? Australians can probably relate to Angela Merkel's predicament," read a headline in The Sydney Morning Herald.

Mr Morrison became prime minister in August after his predecessor, Malcolm Turnbull, was forced out by party rivals.

Mr Turnbull was the fourth Australian leader to be deposed in this way since 2010. Mrs Merkel, by contrast, has been Germany's leader since 2005.

US President Donald Trump also asked Mr Morrison about the leadership change when the pair met earlier at the G20 summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption Scott Morrison and Donald Trump met on the sidelines at the G20 summit

"We just ran through what the events were," Mr Morrison told reporters of the conversation.

Mr Morrison's centre-right coalition fell into minority government after losing a recent by-election, and remains behind the Labor opposition in opinion polls.

Australians are due to vote in a general election next year, most likely in May.-------------------Yemen war: Wounded Houthis rebels to be evacuated






Image copyright AFP Image caption Yemen has been gripped by conflict since early 2015 when Houthi rebels seized control

A UN plane is to evacuate wounded Houthi rebels from Yemen in an effort to build confidence ahead of peace talks, the Saudi-led military coalition fighting the rebels says.

The 50 rebels are due to be flown from the rebel-held capital Sanaa for treatment in Oman later on Monday.

UN-sponsored talks between the rebels and the Saudi-backed government are expected to start in the coming days.

The war has caused the world's worst humanitarian crisis in recent times.

In nearly four years of conflict in Yemen, thousands of people have been killed in fighting and millions have been pushed to the brink of starvation.

"A UN-chartered plane will arrive at Sanaa international airport Monday to evacuate 50 wounded combatants... three Yemeni doctors and a UN doctor, from Sanaa to Muscat," a coalition spokesman said overnight.

He said the move had been requested by the UN special envoy for Yemen, Martin Griffiths, and had been agreed as a confidence-building measure ahead of discussions in Sweden.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The UN says Yemen is on the brink of the world's worst famine in 100 years if the war continues

The UN has been trying to revive talks between the government led by President Abdrabbuh Mansour and the Iranian-backed Houthis who control much of the north.

A previous round in Geneva collapsed in September when the Houthis failed to show up.

Why is there a war in Yemen?

Yemen has been devastated by a conflict that escalated in early 2015, when the Houthis seized control of much of the west of the country and forced President Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi to flee abroad.

Alarmed by the rise of a group they saw as an Iranian proxy, the UAE, Saudi Arabia and seven other Arab states intervened in an attempt to restore the government.

There has been widespread concern for the plight of thousands of civilians trapped in the rebel-held port of Hudaydah.

At least 6,660 civilians have been killed and 10,560 injured in the fighting, according to the United Nations. Thousands more civilians have died from preventable causes, including malnutrition, disease and poor health.

The World Health Organization warned in October that about 10,000 new suspected cases of cholera were now being reported every week.-------------------Spain far-right Vox party gains foothold in Andalusia election






Image copyright Reuters Image caption Vox's leader Santiago Abascal (l) and regional candidate Francisco Serrano celebrated their win on Sunday

A far-right party has won seats in a Spanish regional election for the first time since the country's military dictatorship ended in 1975.

The Vox party took 12 parliamentary seats in Andalusia on Sunday, beating expectations that it would win five.

Tough on immigration and Catalan separatism, Vox could be a kingmaker in a future coalition in Andalusia.

The governing Socialist Party still won more than any other party - 33 seats - but with a greatly reduced majority.

It may try to form a coalition with the left-wing Podemos, to fend off the centre- and far-right in the 109-seat parliament.

Vox's breakthrough in Spanish politics is the latest in a nationalist surge that has swept across Europe. Many had thought Spain was immune, because memories of life under a fascist dictatorship are still relatively fresh.

France's far-right leader Marine Le Pen tweeted (in French): "Strong and warm congratulations to my friends from Vox, who tonight in Spain scored a meaningful result for such a young and dynamic movement."

Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Vox supporters protested against Catalan separatists in the capital Madrid on Saturday

The southern region of Andalusia - Spain's most populous - has high unemployment and is the main arrival point in Spain for migrants crossing the Mediterranean.

The regional result could affect Spain's new Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, reports the El Mundo, as his Socialist Party's defeat and the government's weakness could increase pressure on him to call early elections.

Who are Vox?

Founded in 2014, the party struggled for a long time to make an impact on Spain's political landscape.

Vox has been derided as far-right and populist, anti-immigrant and anti-Islam but its leader Santiago Abascal believes its recent surge of support is because it is "in step with what millions of Spaniards think".

Its leaders reject the far-right label, insisting it is a party of "extreme necessity" rather than extremism. Its overall support for Spain's membership of the EU, it says, differentiates it from many populist and far-right movements across Europe.

The party proposes to "make Spain great again" and critics have described its ideology as a nationalist throwback to the dictatorship of Francisco Franco.-------------------System Resistance Network: Neo Nazi group 'should be illegal'






Image caption Logo of far right group System Resistance Network

The recruitment tactics of a far right group have been exposed after it was infiltrated by an undercover reporter.

System Resistance Network (SRN) preaches zero tolerance to non-whites and that homosexuality is a disease.

BBC Wales Investigates found the group has been targeting Welsh communities to recruitment members.

There are now calls for membership of SRN, which wants expulsion of minorities and a white revolution, to be made illegal.

The group is believed to have been inspired by the now-banned far right group National Action and has inspired its followers to carry out arson and vandalism in Welsh cities.

'Told to read Hitler's Mein Kampf'

After creating a fake online profile, Wales Investigates' undercover reporter gained first-hand experience of how SRN operates.

He communicated with the group for months and gained their trust enough to be asked to carry out acts on their behalf - putting up SRN posters at night and taking pictures of them to prove he had done it.

He was also told to read Hitler's Mein Kampf and other extremist literature.

"They talk about smashing the establishment," he said.

"They want me to break the law - to get their name in the headlines - they don't care who gets hurt."

One of National Action's founders, Swansea-based Alex Davies, has been giving his support for the group on new Nazi radio station, Radio Aryan.

Extremist group 'celebrated MP death'

He was a student when he first created National Action in 2013. His media man, Ben Raymond moved from Bognor Regis to live in Swansea as the group's numbers and infamy grew.

National Action was considered the most dangerous far right organisation in Britain and was outlawed in December 2016 after glorifying the murder of Labour MP Jo Cox.

Image caption National Action was founded by Ben Raymond (pictured) and Alex Davies in 2013

Just over a year ago Mr Davies and Mr Raymond were both arrested on suspicion of continued membership of National Action, something they deny. They have not been charged. Police say their investigations are continuing.

BBC Wales Investigates listened to Mr Davies on neo Nazi station Radio Aryan, where he said he was encouraged by racist posters and graffiti daubed on walls in Cardiff earlier this year.

"As long as there's some signs of resistance then there's hope," he said. "It's like a fire. As long as you've got some embers burning all you need is to put some fuel on that fire and it can turn into something big very quickly."

Mr Raymond has also made appearances on the station asking for support for far right supporters who have been jailed, in particular to send them reading material.

Image caption Alex Davies was forced out of Warwick university for his far right political activities

BBC Wales approached the man who runs Radio Aryan, who calls himself Sven Longshanks.

He declined to be interviewed but contacted the programme by e-mail to deny any wrongdoing and said the station was for nationalists to listen to in the privacy of their own homes.

He added that he was not responsible for anything that Ben Raymond or Alex Davies say on his programmes.

Ten people have been convicted this year of continued membership of National Action. Counter Terror police said they maintained their links and took the group underground.

Earlier this year, Christopher Lythgoe and Matthew Hankinson were jailed for a total of 14 years after being found guilty of being members of the group after a six-week trial.

Fellow National Action members Adam Thomas and Claudia Patatas, who named their baby after Adolf Hitler, and Daniel Bogunovic, were also found guilty of National Action membership and will be sentenced later this month.

'Whites only' enclave

One National Action member decided Wales was fertile ground not only to spread the far right message but to set up white enclaves.

Mikko Vehvilainen was a lance corporal and fitness instructor in the Royal Anglian regiment. His neighbours in the village of Llansilin in Powys had no idea of his Nazi sympathies until a dramatic police raid in September 2017. Counter terrorism officers discovered he was still an active member of National Action - and was linked to other members of the now underground group in the Midlands.

Image copyright Alamy Image caption Mikko Vehvilainen gives a Nazi salute

In Vehvilainen's home, and his military accommodation at Sennybridge Camp, officers found Nazi paraphernalia, weapons and messages he had been exchanging with fellow far right sympathisers via encrypted apps.

In one message he sent to a fellow far right sympathiser using an encrypted app the true extent of his hatred for other races was laid bare.

The Afghanistan veteran said black people were not worthy of life and added: "I could shoot their children and feel nothing. I didn't kill any Muslims up close, but when I was involved in killing them it didn't bother me one bit. Maybe some of my shots killed them. I hope so."

Vehvilainen was jailed for eight years for being a member of National Action after the prosecution at his trial successfully argued he had been trying to recruit fellow soldiers into the group.

The trial heard he bought the house in Llansilin as part of a plan to set up an all-white enclave in mid Wales.

'Attracted to the military'

Vehvilainen managed to infiltrate the British Army despite his extreme views, but in his native Finland his sympathies were well known.

BBC Wales Investigates travelled to the Baltic state to meet Esa Holappa, a former neo Nazi who turned his back on the movement where he had been in regular dialogue with Vehvilainen.

"Mikko was a very hateful person, willing to fight and struggle for his ideas and maybe take another step," he said.

"It was very, very clear that according to MV's ideas and the ideology he followed... certain people could be exterminated and killed in order to achieve a white revolution, the white victory."

Esa was not surprised that Vehvilainen joined the British Army, and said it was a known tactic for racist groups.

Image copyright AFP Image caption Hitler's Mein Kampf

The Army told BBC Wales Investigates it vets recruits for convictions or links to extremist groups and has robust measures to ensure those showing extremist views are not tolerated or permitted to serve.

'Internet companies should do more'

Stephen Doughty, MP for Cardiff South and Penarth, said SRN - like National Action - should be outlawed.

He also wants the police to investigate Radio Aryan and comments made on it by Alex Davies and Ben Raymond.

BBC Wales Investigates repeatedly tried to contact both Ben Raymond and Alex Davies for an interview. They have denied any wrongdoing and believe they have a right to their views and to free speech.

"This is free speech that is too damaging for the rights of others," said Mr Doughty.

"You cannot have liberty to impinge on the liberty of others and a lot of these organisations hide behind that when in reality they are allowing disgusting and hateful content to exist.

"It is also about the penalties for technology and internet companies that continue to host this content when it has been reported to the authorities."

Assistant Chief Constable Jon Drake of the Wales Extremism and Counter Terrorism Unit told BBC Wales Investigates the police were working with communities across Wales to detect and prevent radicalisation, both online and elsewhere

"The ideology and intention has not changed - it's the tools that are available for criminality in all its forms to exploit," he said.

"What I'd say though is it's also an opportunity for us to investigate and it doesn't matter whether people are trying to radicalise online or offline, if the offence is there we will investigate and bring people to justice."

Security Minister Ben Wallace said: "The government will not hesitate to prescribe any organisation that poses a threat and work is underway with tech companies to combat extremist propaganda online."

He added that new proposals to combat the threat of online radicalisation are due to be published this winter.

Watch BBC Wales Investigates Exposed: The hidden world of Neo Nazi recruiters on Monday at 20:30 on BBC One Wales-------------------Trump says China agreed to reduce tariffs on US car imports






Image copyright Getty Images

Beijing will "reduce and remove" tariffs on US car imports into China, US President Donald Trump said.

President Trump made the comments on Twitter without providing more details. The tariffs are currently set at 40%.

The move comes after the US and China reached a temporary truce in their trade war.

President Trump and Xi Jinping agreed at the G20 summit to halt new trade tariffs for 90 days to allow for talks.

The US and China have been embroiled in a trade war this year which has seen the US hit China with tariffs on $250bn (£195.9bn) worth of goods since July, and China retaliate with duties on some $110bn of US goods over the same period.

As part of this, the US imposed a 25% tariff on Chinese cars, on top of the 2.5% already in place.

China imposed a 40% tariff on US vehicle imports - much higher than the 15% it places on other trading partners.

The US says its tariff policy is a response to China's "unfair" trade practices and accuses it of intellectual property theft.

Failure to strike a deal at the G20 summit would have seen tariffs on $200bn worth of Chinese goods rise from 10% to 25% at the start of next year, and would have opened the way for tariffs on additional Chinese goods.

Relief over the agreement at the G20 pushed Asian markets higher on Monday. In China, Hong Kong's Hang Seng index jumped 2.6% and the Shanghai Composite index rallied 2.9%. Japan's Nikkei 225 index rose 1%.

"Many people suspected that there may be a more disastrous outcome, this is definitely a relief," Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JP Morgan in Japan, said.

What was agreed at the G20?

In a statement, the White House said US tariffs on Chinese goods will remain unchanged for 90 days, but added: "If at the end of this period of time, the parties are unable to reach an agreement, the 10 percent tariffs will be raised to 25 percent."

The US said China agreed to "purchase a not yet agreed upon, but very substantial, amount of agricultural, energy, industrial, and other products from the United States to reduce the trade imbalance between our two countries".

Both sides also pledged to "immediately begin negotiations on structural changes with respect to forced technology transfer, intellectual property protection, non-tariff barriers, cyber intrusions and cyber theft", according to the White House.

Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told reporters after the talks that "the principal agreement has effectively prevented further expansion of economic friction between the two countries".

He hailed "new space for win-win co-operation", while Chinese state TV said negotiations would continue.

Are tariffs still in place?

Yes. The truce prevents raising tariffs as planned on $200bn worth of Chinese goods.

But it does not remove tariffs that apply to a total of $250bn of Chinese goods targeted since July.

The truce also does not affect the existing duties China has imposed on $110bn of US goods in a tit for tat retaliation.

Will this resolve the dispute?

While the result of the G20 meeting was better than expected, it is unclear how the two countries will manage to resolve the underlying differences behind the conflict.

"There should be no wishful thinking that the truce would end the trade war between the world's two largest economies," DBS strategist Philip Wee wrote in a research note.

He said it "remains to be seen if real progress could be achieved during this narrow window to resolve the contentious issues, not just on trade, but also intellectual property."

Louis Kuijs, head of Asia economics at Oxford Economics, said while the agreement itself was "positive" the next steps remained unclear.

"Whether we will see further de-escalation or whether it is temporary reprieve continues to be very much up to a political decision in Washington DC - that will continue to make this uncertain," Louis Kuijs, head of Asia economics at Oxford Economics said.-------------------Woman killed 'leaning out of train window' between Bath and Bristol






Image copyright Geography Photos/Getty Image caption The woman suffered serious head injuries on a Bristol Temple Meads-bound service

A woman killed on a train may have been leaning out of a window when she suffered a blow to the head, police said.

She died after sustaining serious head injuries on a Bristol Temple Meads-bound service, between Bath and Keynsham.

Police said the woman's death, at about 22:10 GMT on Saturday, was not being treated as suspicious.

The Rail Accident Investigation Branch has been informed.

A British Transport Police statement said: "We were called at around 10.10pm following a report a woman had received serious head injuries while travelling on a train between Bath and Keynsham."

It continued: "Initial inquiries suggest the woman may have been leaning out of a window when she suffered a blow to the head.

"Officers are currently working to confirm her identity and inform her next of kin."-------------------Newspaper headlines: Theresa May fighting on all Brexit fronts






Image caption Another week of blanket Brexit coverage looms and the Times reports the rapidly cooling relationship between Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party and the Conservative government it has been propping up for the past 18 months could be about to freeze altogether. The DUP has "threatened to abandon" Theresa May in any confidence vote, should she fail to get her Brexit deal through Parliament, the paper says.

Image caption Labour is determined to force through that no-confidence motion, says the Metro. It quotes shadow Brexit Secretary Sir Keir Starmer warning his party would push for a general election if her proposed EU withdrawal agreement is rejected by MPs. Dozens of Conservative MPs have vowed to vote against the government, the paper reminds readers.

Image caption In the i's estimation, this leaves the current state of play as "Parliament versus Downing Street". The PM could provoke a constitutional crisis by refusing to release the legal advice she received ahead of agreeing the Brexit deal. However, the government fears the advice - which some claim concludes that the "backstop" arrangement would leave the EU with an effective veto on the UK leaving its customs rules - could prove "explosive" enough to scupper the deal, the paper adds.

Image caption The "backstop" - a temporary customs arrangement that would tie the UK to EU rules until a formal trade deal was agreed - is also the focus of the Daily Telegraph's front page. The paper says Theresa May's chief Brexit adviser warned her that activating the backstop would be a "bad outcome" for the UK, leading to regulatory checks in the Irish Sea and putting security co-operation at risk.

Image caption Meanwhile, the Daily Express leads on comments from Commons leader Andrea Leadsom, who suggests that growing calls from Remainer MPs to hold another referendum on EU membership are a "gross betrayal of democracy". She writes in the paper that a fresh poll would "damage the trust between people and Parliament".

Image caption The Guardian covers the possibility of the government being held in contempt of Parliament, on its front page. However, its lead story examines the extent of racism in modern Britain. In a survey of 1,000 people from ethnic minorities, 43% felt they were likely to be overlooked for promotion in a way that felt unfair, while 38% said they had been wrongly suspected of shoplifting in the past five years, the paper reports.

Image caption The Daily Mail trumpets the success of its campaign to encourage readers to sign up as hospital volunteers. Some 7,296 people had signed up to contribute 420,000 hours of support for frontline staff, the paper says.

Image caption Meanwhile the Daily Mirror launches a Christmas campaign of its own, calling on readers to support the Trussell Trust, which runs food banks that could hand out 500,000 meals to children over the festive season. The paper's front page also plugs comments from TV presenter Noel Edmonds, who spoke after being kicked out of the jungle by viewers of ITV's I'm a Celebrity...

Image caption The Sun also features a photo of a svelte Edmonds declaring: "I'm no Mr Blobby!". The paper leads with a story suggesting Tracey Connelly, who was jailed for causing or allowing the killing of "Baby P" - her one-year-old son Peter Connelly - in 2009, has been granted contact with her other children.

Theresa May is feeling the pressure from all directions in her bid to win over MPs to her Brexit deal, if Monday's front pages have it right.

And the Independent's headline nicely sums things up as: "Parliament versus Downing Street."

If the headlines offer little to cheer the PM, the Sun's inside pages make equally grim reading for any fatigued readers who might have been hoping the whole saga would soon be over.

The paper suggests the Commons vote - scheduled for next Tuesday - could be delayed, reporting that government whips have discussed seeking further concessions from the EU before putting the deal to MPs.

The move would see the PM return from Brussels, either with changes to win over Brexit rebels or with "final proof" that she had tried her best, the paper says. However, No 10 insists it still plans to hold the vote next week.

Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning

The Daily Telegraph claims to have seen a leaked letter in which Mrs May's chief Brexit adviser, Olly Robins, warns her that the proposed customs backstop would be a "bad outcome" for the UK. It says he also warned there was no legal guarantee the UK could get out of the arrangement, leaving Britain trapped.

The Conservative Brexiteer, Priti Patel, tells the paper that when "even the architect of the Brexit deal" appears to be saying it's a bad agreement, colleagues should seriously question how they can vote for it.

The government could be declared in contempt of Parliament if it doesn't publish the advice in full, the Guardian reports, while the i warns of a looming "constitutional crisis".

For the Times, the exceptional circumstances of Brexit mean the full details should be published.

"It is vital", says the paper, that when MPs vote on the Brexit deal "they take such a momentous decision in full possession of all the facts".

'Charm offensive'

Image copyright AFP

Some papers look ahead to future votes which could follow any Commons defeat.

The Times says the DUP is considering abandoning Mrs May if there is a confidence vote against her. A party source tells the paper that the arrangement by which it supports the Tories does not bind the DUP to vote with the PM.

The Daily Mail accuses Labour of being "cynical", saying the party's plan for a confidence vote reveals their only true aim is to bring down the government.

Meanwhile, the Guardian says Mrs May will continue her "charm offensive" to sell the deal by holding dozens of meetings with Tory MPs on Monday.

Rallying cries

Image copyright BBC/WallToWall Image caption The Voice UK star Sir Tom Jones is backing the Mail's campaign to encourage people to volunteer for the NHS

A number of the papers lead with campaigns today, with the Daily Mirror launching a call to help feed hungry children using food banks this Christmas.

The online Independent pictures its owner, Evgeny Lebedev, with Sir Elton John taking HIV tests. The paper says it hopes to "build a world without AIDS".

For its part, the Mail says more than 7,000 readers have "done it proud" by answering the call for volunteers to help the NHS. The paper says they have pledged 420,000 hours of "priceless support", carrying out non-medical tasks ranging from ferrying patients to appointments to befriending those without visitors.

The paper adds that Theresa May, singer Sir Tom Jones, and the head of the Royal College of Nursing have given the campaign their backing.

A 'fed' horse?

Image copyright AFP

Finally, the Times highlights the predictions of a researcher from Swansea University, who believes references to meat and animal cruelty will become less common in the English language, as awareness of vegan issues grows.

The paper says phrases such as "bring home the bacon" and "letting the cat out of the bag" have peppered the way we speak for centuries.

But the academic favours harm-free verbal alternatives; for example, the phrase "flogging a dead horse" could become "feeding a fed horse", reports the Mail. "More than one way to peel a potato" could replace "more than one way to skin a cat", it adds.-------------------100 Women: Freedom Trash Can project






What's stopping women from achieving their full potential?

At a famous protest in the US back in 1968, feminists placed items in a bin that they felt oppressed them.

Fifty years on, we're doing the same again and asking women around the world about the objects they feel stop them from living their lives the way they want.

Image copyright Getty Images

The demonstration at the Miss America beauty pageant in New Jersey sparked off the iconic - and mythical - image of the "bra-burning feminist".

A group of women hurled mops, lipsticks and high heels into a Freedom Trash Can.

The idea was to symbolically throw away things that oppressed women, says Robin Morgan, one of the organisers. Passers-by were invited to join in.

"Some feminist historians mark [it] as the real beginning of the current wave of feminism," says Ms Morgan, who is on this year's BBC 100 Women list.

"[But] while flattering and quite lovely to hear, [it] is not true. There were already groups like the National Organisation for Women in existence."

What stuck in the public consciousness about the protest was the image of the "bra-burning feminist" - something that paradoxically never actually happened.

Some women did throw underwear, including bras, into the Freedom Trash Can.

"They never burned them," says Ms Morgan.

Image copyright Getty Images

The items in the 100 Women Freedom Trash Can come from members of the audience, as well as from some of people featured on this year's 100 Women list.

Some of the items, such as the bra, acknowledge the original 1968 protest.

If you are reading this page on the BBC News app, you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question on this topic.

What is 100 Women?

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year and shares their stories.

It's been a momentous year for women's rights around the globe, so in 2018 BBC 100 Women will reflect the trailblazing women who are using passion, indignation and anger to spark real change in the world around them.

Find us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and use #100Women-------------------On the hunt for India’s ‘stolen’ heritage






Video

The India Pride Project is a volunteer-run organisation which aims to return thousands of artefacts, which it says were ‘stolen’ from India during the colonial era.

It says many of these treasures are in the British Museum in London, but the museum disputes this.

BBC Asian Network's Nalini Sivathasan met one of the group’s volunteers.-------------------Photo contest celebrates creativity in the construction industry






The Art of Building photography contest has announced the top 12 shots that have made it through to their final.

The competition, run by the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB), celebrates creativity in the construction industry, with a cash prize of £3,500 for the winner.

The finalists beat thousands of other entrants and now face a public vote to find the winning shot.

Here are the 12 photos in the final.

Sunset above the skyscraper, taken in St Petersburg, Russia, by Mikhail Proskalov

Image copyright Mikhail Proskalov

21 inches, taken in Bijar, Iran, by Jamshid Farajvand

Image copyright Jamshid Farajvand

Hope Hole, taken in Qom, Iran, by Rasol Bayati

Image copyright Rasol Bayati

Christmas in Fish Skeleton, taken in New York, USA, by Yi Cherne Juang

Image copyright Yi Cherne Juang

Casa Confetti, taken in Utrecht, Netherlands, by Hans Wichmann

Image copyright Hans Wichmann

Urban Mountain, taken in Baku, Azerbaijan, by Hamed Younesi

Image copyright Hamed Younesi

Avala, taken in Serbia, by David Meredith

Image copyright David Meredith

Spiral, taken in Edinburgh, Scotland, by Shahbaz Majeed

Image copyright Shahbaz Majeed

Working Overtime, taken in Manitoba, Canada, by Beverly Jay

Image copyright Beverly Jay

White Women, taken in Medina, Saudi Arabia, by Hossein Farahani

Image copyright Hossein Farahani

Roof Resident, taken in Nuremberg, Germany, by Ana Tchankvetadze

Image copyright Ana Tchankvetadze

Swans, taken in Naples, Italy, by Roberto Conte

Image copyright Roberto Conte

The competition public vote can be found at the Art of Building website.-------------------'Excellence isn't an act, it's a habit'






'Get on the wavelength of your staff'

You need to get on the wavelength of your creative staff or your business will go nowhere, says florist Aron Gelbard.-------------------Wilder v Fury: British boxer sings 'American Pie' in news conference






Tyson Fury sings 'American Pie' to the media at the news conference after his draw with Deontay Wilder in Los Angeles.

READ MORE: Fury v Wilder ends in stunning draw

WATCH MORE: Wilder v Fury: 'The division is alive again'-------------------Doctor Who star to read CBeebies story






Image copyright PA Image caption The Broadchurch star took over from Peter Capaldi to become the 13th Time Lord

Doctor Who star Jodie Whittaker is to be the latest celebrity to read a CBeebies Bedtime Story.

The first female Doctor will read Ada Twist, Scientist - the third in a series of books by Andrea Beaty and David Roberts - later this month.

"I hope that everyone enjoys it as much as I did," said the 36-year-old star, calling the experience "an honour".

Previous Time Lords to read on the show include David Tennant, in 2009, and Christopher Eccleston in 2010.

Whittaker has garnered many positive reviews for her performance as Doctor Who, despite some initial opposition from traditionalist Whovians to having a woman in the role.

Celebrity line-up

The mother-of-one will make her CBeebies debut on 7 December.

Sir Elton John, Dolly Parton and Hollywood stars Orlando Bloom and Ewan McGregor have all read on the show, which airs daily from Monday to Friday.

Last month saw Catastrophe star Rob Delaney become the first celebrity to read a story signed in Makaton, a form of sign language which he used to communicate with his late son Henry who was unable to speak due to a tracheotomy.

"It is such an honour to know that families and friends will be sharing this experience with me," said Whittaker.

The penultimate episode of the current series of Doctor Who, airs on Sunday at 18:30 GMT.-------------------Stranger Things star: 'Season three will be darker but funnier'






Video

Gaten Matarazzo, 16, who plays Dustin in the hit Netflix show talks about what viewers can expect from season three and why he prefers performing live on stage to on-camera acting.

He spoke to BBC News alongside his friends and family at the For The Love Of Sci-Fi festival in Manchester, where their band Work In Progress was performing.-------------------BBC News Channel






Video

Britain's most-watched news channel, delivering breaking news and analysis all day, every day.

The BBC News Channel is available in the UK only.

Don't forget, if you watch TV online as it's being broadcast, you need a TV Licence.

You can send comments and pictures to the BBC News Channel by texting 61124, or emailing yourpics@bbc.co.uk.-------------------The shop where it's OK to be different






Two brothers on the autistic spectrum were looking for work when one had the idea of opening a comic shop. It turned out to be an inspired choice.

When Adam Makey told his mother that he wanted to open a comic shop, she laughed out loud.

The idea seemed "ridiculous", Angela Makey says. She knew he'd been obsessed with comics since childhood. But how would he deal with customers and suppliers and all the other jobs that running a business entails? His Asperger syndrome would be a big hindrance, she thought.

On the other hand, it wasn't clear what else Adam would do for a living.

He had a degree in philosophy and had learned to live independently, but there didn't seem to be any suitable jobs going.

The family had hoped he and his younger brother Guy, also on the autistic spectrum, could find work that matched their strengths: reliability, punctuality and attention to detail. But all available opportunities seemed to involve occasional shift work - and they needed a regular routine.

Angela had seen statistics from the National Autistic Society, which said that only about one in six people with autism were in full-time employment. Fewer still had found jobs that matched their abilities.

"We knew the cards were stacked against them," she says.

So the "laughable" comic shop idea began to grow on her.

Eventually she used her savings to buy a quaint Tudor shop in Huntingdon in Cambridgeshire, and seven years ago Niche Comics was born.

Image copyright Niche Comics Image caption Guy (left), Angela and Adam

Like many people with autism, Adam and Guy love comics for their world of rich detail and visual expression. For some it helps that the characters' emotions are so clearly signposted.

There is also something appealing about the stories they tell.

"Comics became very important to me when my parents told me about my Asperger syndrome diagnosis," explains Adam Makey.

"They are a reminder that it's OK to not be like everyone else."

Autism and work

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is the name for a range of conditions, including Asperger syndrome, that affect a person's social interaction, communication, interests and behaviour

It can be difficult for people with ASD to find a job - for example, they may find the work environment too noisy, or travelling to work may be too stressful because of the crowds... sudden changes in routine can also be upsetting

A report from the National Autistic Society estimates that only 16% of autistic adults are in full-time, paid work

See also:Help and support for people with ASD (NHS)

Adam was seven at the time, and just graduating from an interest in Beano and Dandy to Marvel comic heroes on TV. He's now 30, and comics and their heroes have been part of his life all that time.

There's also the escapist fantasy element, says Guy. He pauses to consider something else. The larger-than-life superheroes with a moral mission are appealing. "Their motivations are easier to understand, their aims and goals are easier to decipher than, say, someone you've met in the street."

Adam says he was drawn particularly to Spiderman. "It's because of the whole, 'with power comes great responsibility' theme," he says. "He was just a regular person who had powers and wanted to help people."

Image copyright Alamy

According to Angela another big factor is that comics are "not seen as judgmental, there is no age-limit, there isn't any measure of ability". An adult is just as welcome in the world of comics as a child.

Comic fans can also relish building up encyclopaedic knowledge of characters, editions, publishers, authors, illustrators, one-off collaborations - and this is something the brothers are adept at.

Interested in comics about Vampires in the horror genre?

Adam would humbly suggest American Vampire by Vertigo Comics.

"Originally it was a collaboration between Scott Snyder who does some of the current Batman stuff for DC and Stephen King the famous horror writer," he points out.

He continues without pausing: "Vertigo was the home of Hellblazer, which is the home of John Constantine, which is a very popular character, to the point where he got his own TV show for a while and he is still a character on Legends of Tomorrow, the DC TV show. And also they did the Keanu Reeves film, which is very different from the comic. And they do Sandman as well, which is Neil Gaiman's big-name comic."

The brothers relish acting as guides in this universe, introducing customers to new comics.

"The beauty of it is you can hand-pick the comics in your own shop. It's an embarrassment of riches," says Guy, 26.

"We have a system of organised chaos."

But the brothers can pinpoint where every comic is and lead customers straight to them.

There is some friendly rivalry when it comes to generating sales, and converting newcomers to their favourite genres: for Guy, the classics from the 40s and 50s, featuring Superman and Captain America, for example; for Adam, newer comics like Black Panther and Sandman.

In the early days, problems with numeracy and communication - with customers and suppliers - threatened the very existence of the shop.

Typically with autism you don't find uniform levels of ability across subject areas, explains Angela, but peaks in some and troughs in others.

"Adam and Guy are both very visual, incredibly interested in literature and plays," she says. "However one of their troughs is mathematics. Letting loose two young adults with autism was quite a risky business."

Customer payments were a big problem. The brothers struggled to enter prices into the till, and then to enter the same total on the card-reader machine.

"Numbers went the wrong way round, or there was a zero missing," recalls Angela.

To get round this, the shop invested in a till where barcodes, prices and the card-reader machine are all integrated and no numbers are inputted at the point of sale.

There were also problems dealing with the companies that provide stock. People with autism need very clear, literal instructions and don't like uncertainty, Angela says. Important information needs to be well sign-posted whereas in everyday conversation, sentences are often left incomplete and thoughts unfinished.

A joint email inbox became necessary so Angela could intervene if she saw any confusion creeping in.

These days Angela describes her main role in the shop as "interferer".

Working full-time with an IT Services company outside Huntingdon, she can only devote so much time to her sons' business. She looks after accounts, tax returns and online sales, but they take care of the day-to-day running of the shop.

Financially it has always remained in the black, though the brothers only draw a small wage.

Of course, the majority of customers who come to the shop are not on the autistic spectrum. But the brothers do get a steady stream of customers who are, both male and female, from young children to pensioners. These people may deliberately seek out the shop because of its reputation for offering a welcoming experience.

"Being on the autistic spectrum ourselves is a big help dealing with neurodiverse people," Adam says.

Not every customer with autism wants to discuss their condition, but the brothers are good at spotting the signs.

"It's an instinctual thing," says Adam.

"Maybe it's the tone of the voice, the motion of a hand," says Guy. "Small details that most people won't pick up on that I might have insight into; rubbing of the fingers, fidgeting, or just a sense of distraction."

The shop has been laid out with these customers in mind. People with autism feel textures, sounds and light very keenly, to the point where they can become overwhelming.

"We make sure there aren't too many distractions and we are aware that people with autism might have very specific interests," Adam says.

One of the reasons the shop is called Niche is that it has nooks and crannies where customers can retire to read in peace and quiet, away from undesired sensory stimulation.

Once the shop had established itself, the brothers also began reaching out to people with autism beyond the shop.

Three years ago Adam started giving talks to young people who are learning-disabled. As a result, some teachers realised that graphic novels were a great way to reach out to people on the spectrum.

Building on those links, the brothers began to take regular "referrals" for work experience from schools and colleges.

The idea is people with disabilities can practise for working life in a safe space.

This is one way the shop can serve the community, says Angela, providing opportunities that less sympathetic employers would not.

"The hidden disabilities of communication and autism are forgotten or overlooked by many people," she says.

"Individuals on the spectrum can be articulate, opinionated, excellent problem solvers, but also incredibly reliable."

In short, excellent employees, if given the right support.

Young people on work experience are first set a task in isolation, often sorting out comics at the rear of the shop, which is repetitive and methodical. Eventually they will graduate to working behind the till.

"After a few days," says Angela, "people who were perhaps not communicating at all come outside themselves and start engaging.

"That's the joy, to see the change."

Seven years on, Angela is glad she took the risk of helping her sons create their dream shop.

"It's been an emotional journey and if I'd known what I know now, I would have had to dig deep to go ahead with it," she says.

"But it was the right decision. This shop has a soul."

You can follow Dougal Shaw on Twitter: @dougalshawBBC

You may also be interested in the 1800 seconds on autism podcast, from BBC Sounds:

Listen to the podcast, or download it, here

Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and Twitter.-------------------Why the world is becoming more allergic to food






Image copyright Getty Images

Around the world, children are far more likely than ever before to develop food allergies.

Recent inquiries into the deaths of two British teenagers after eating sesame and peanut highlighted the sometimes tragic consequences. In August, a six-year-old girl in Western Australia died as the result of a dairy allergy.

The rise in allergies in recent decades has been particularly noticeable in the West. Food allergy now affects about 7% of children in the UK and 9% of those in Australia, for example. Across Europe, 2% of adults have food allergies.

Life-threatening reactions can be prompted even by traces of the trigger foods, meaning patients and families live with fear and anxiety. The dietary restrictions which follow can become a burden to social and family lives.

While we can't say for sure why allergy rates are increasing, researchers around the world are working hard to find ways to combat this phenomenon.

Image copyright Family handout/PA Wire Image caption British teenager Natasha Ednan-Laperouse died after eating a baguette containing sesame seeds

What causes an allergy?

An allergy is caused by the immune system fighting substances in the environment that it should see as harmless, known as allergens.

These innocent substances become targets, leading to allergic reactions.

Symptoms range from skin redness, hives and swelling to - in the most severe cases - vomiting, diarrhoea, difficulty breathing and anaphylactic shock.

Some of the most common foods for children to be allergic to are:

milk

eggs

peanuts

tree nuts (eg walnuts, almonds, pine nuts, brazil nuts, pecans)

sesame

fish

shellfish (eg crustaceans and molluscs)

Where are food allergies most likely to occur?

The frequency of food allergy has increased over the past 30 years, particularly in industrialised societies. Exactly how great the increase is depends on the food and where the patient lives.

For example, there was a five-fold increase in peanut allergies in the UK between 1995 and 2016.

A study of 1,300 three-year-olds for the EAT Study at King's College London, suggested that 2.5% now have peanut allergies.

Australia has the highest rate of confirmed food allergy. One study found 9% of Australian one-year-olds had an egg allergy, while 3% were allergic to peanuts.

Image copyright Getty Images

The increase in allergies is not simply the effect of society becoming more aware of them and better at diagnosing them.

It is thought that allergies and increased sensitivity to foods are probably environmental, and related to Western lifestyles.

We know there are lower rates of allergies in developing countries. They are also more likely to occur in urban rather than rural areas.

Factors may include pollution, dietary changes and less exposure to microbes, which change how our immune systems respond.

Migrants appear to show a higher prevalence of asthma and food allergy in their adopted country compared to their country of origin, further illustrating the importance of environmental factors.

Image copyright Getty Images

Some possible explanations

There is no single explanation for why the world is becoming more allergic to food, but science has some theories.

One is that improved hygiene is to blame, as children are not getting as many infections.

Parasitic infections, in particular, are normally fought by the same mechanisms involved in tackling allergies. With fewer parasites to fight, the immune system turns against things that should be harmless.

Another idea is that vitamin D can help our immune system develop a healthy response, making us less susceptible to allergies. Most populations around the world do not get enough vitamin D for several reasons, including spending less time in the sun. In the US, the rate of vitamin D deficiency is thought to have almost doubled in just over a decade.

A newer, "dual allergen exposure" theory, suggests food allergy development is down to the balance between the timing, dose and form of exposure.

For example, the development of the allergy antibodies can take place through the skin, particularly through inflamed skin in babies with eczema.

But it is thought that eating trigger foods during weaning can lead to a healthy response and prevent the allergy developing, because the gut's immune system is prepared to tolerate bacteria and foreign substances, such as food.

This was the basis for King's College London's LEAP Study, which showed about an 80% reduction in peanut allergy in five-year-old children who regularly ate peanut from the year they were born.

This study led to changes in US guidelines about peanut consumption in infancy. UK parents have been advised to consult their GP first.

More like this

Human impact

The recent deaths of UK teenagers suffering from food allergies highlight the human impact of this condition, and the importance of clear and accurate labelling.

There is currently no cure for food allergy, and managing the condition relies on avoiding the offending foods and on an emergency treatment plan in case of exposure.

But even making an initial diagnosis is challenging. The main way to identify food allergies is for a patient to gradually eat increased amounts of that food under medical supervision.

However, this is distressing for children, and has the risk of causing an allergic reaction. The accompanying tests of their immune systems' reaction can also give a false positive in non-allergic children.

Image copyright Thinkstock

At King's College London we have developed an alternative; a blood test which has proved accurate in diagnosing peanut allergy compared with existing methods.

These tests now cover the foods responsible for 90% of children's allergies, and will hopefully be available to patients in the next couple of years.

Even following a successful diagnosis, avoiding trigger foods is difficult and accidental reactions are common.

Allergen immunotherapy - administering small amounts of the substance - has been shown to reduce the sensitivity of allergic patients and can protect against accidental exposure.

A recent immunotherapy drug trial found 67% of peanut-allergic subjects could consume the equivalent of two peanut kernels after a year, compared to 4% of the control group. Nevertheless, they are still allergic.

Other treatments are being investigated for food allergy, and are much needed.

In the meantime, allergies will remain a source of worry and part of daily life for the children and their parents.

About this piece

This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation.

Dr Alexandra Santos is a Senior Clinical Lecturer at the Department of Paediatric Allergy, King's College London.

Edited by Eleanor Lawrie-------------------Five things to know for the week ahead: Change in Germany and a big debate






It's Monday, it's a new week, and while we won't pretend to know everything that's going to happen over the next seven days, we have some sense of what's coming up.

Here's your briefing on some of the most important and interesting stories happening in the week ahead.

1) Change afoot in Germany

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sipping and waiting: Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer and Friedrich Merz

What's happening?

On Saturday, Germany's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) will vote on a new leader. They'll replace one Angela Merkel.

Why does it matter?

After 18 years, Mrs Merkel is resigning as leader of the CDU, and says she will also eventually step down as chancellor.

Whoever is named party leader in Saturday's vote is likely to replace her as chancellor when she does leave (which might not be that far into the future). They'll end up leading Europe's largest economy, and the continent's driving force, in the post-Brexit years.

There are two leading candidates: Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, a Merkel ally, and Friedrich Merz, a long-time Merkel rival. (Jens Spahn, the federal health minister, is also in the running.)

Coming from the more conservative side of the party, Mr Merz has attracted controversy by suggesting Germany's constitution be rewritten so it no longer offers a guarantee of asylum to those who need it.

2) Let the debate begin

Image copyright PA

What's happening?

On Tuesday, British members of parliament begin a week-long debate ahead of a vote on whether to accept Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit deal.

Why does it matter?

To say this is a defining week for the prime minister is an understatement.

The deal Mrs May struck with European neighbours, deciding the terms on which the UK will leave the European Union next March, has proven deeply unpopular with members of her party.

Dozens of her MPs are against the deal, a number of her ministers have resigned over it, and there is a risk the vote will not pass on 11 December.

The next week will give a clearer sense of where the party lies as a whole. But it's nothing compared to the fireworks we could see in a week's time.

3) A divided world?

What's happening?

On Wednesday, the annual Global Gender Gap Report will be published.

Why does it matter?

The report, published by the World Economic Forum, details the size of the gender gap in countries around the world,

The last report said that the parity gap across health, education, politics and the workplace widened for the first time since records began in 2006.

So will that trend continue? Or will be in a slightly better place by the end of 2018?

Iceland topped the overall rankings in 2017 as the most gender-equal country, while the US was 49th.

4) Speaker Ryan exits the House

What's happening?

The outgoing US House Speaker Paul Ryan, who announced he was retiring in April to spend more time with his family, delivers his farewell address on Wednesday.

Why does it matter?

While Mr Ryan has said that he never wanted the job and his motivation for leaving the role was to avoid becoming a "weekend dad" to his three teenage children, his move has an important political context.

His ideas on policy, for example, were frequently at odds with Donald Trump and led to a number of clashes with the president.

This matters because the role of House speaker placed Mr Ryan second in line to the president after Vice-President Mike Pence.

Now, following November's mid-term elections, the Democrats have recaptured control of US Congress' lower chamber.

Last week, the party nominated Nancy Pelosi, 78, as Mr Ryan's replacement as speaker of the House of Representatives. She will face an election bid in a full House vote on 3 January.

The veteran California lawmaker, who is considered by her opponents to be too divisive for the role, will need 218 votes to take up the speaker's gavel in January.

Assuming that all Republicans oppose her, a revolt by 17 or 18 Democrats would be needed to thwart her.

Ms Pelosi has served in the role before, where she demonstrated her effectiveness by holding her party together for tough votes on healthcare reform, financial regulations, climate-change legislation and spending bills.

5) Turner Prize focuses on film

Image copyright Reuters Image caption A Tate Britain employee stands before the Turner-nominated exhibit by Forensic Architecture

What's happening?

The winner of this year's Turner Prize will be named on Tuesday.

Why does it matter?

The often controversial award is one of the biggest in the contemporary art world and it attracts huge interest as, regardless of quality, there is always plenty of variety.

This year, for the first time in its history, all the shortlisted pieces for the £25,000 ($32,000) prize were submitted in a film format.

One nominee, Forensic Architecture, is an "architectural detective agency", which you will hear more about on the BBC website this week. It uncovers and exhibits facts about crimes and human rights abuses.

Other nominees include Luke Willis Thompson, Charlotte Prodger - who shot her work on an iPhone - and Naeem Mohaiemen, whose work explores left-wing political movements in the developing world, focusing on Algeria and Bangladesh.

Established in 1984, the prize is awarded to a British artist for an outstanding exhibition or presentation of work in the previous 12 months.-------------------Tamino: The new 'Sound of the Nile'?






Image copyright Hanne Valckenaers Image caption Tamino's first name comes from the Mozart opera The Magic Flute

Of Belgian, Egyptian and Lebanese heritage, 22-year-old singer-songwriter Tamino Moharam Fouad has quite a name to live up to.

His late grandfather, after whom Tamino was named, was one of the biggest stars of the so-called golden age of Egyptian musical cinema in the 1960s.

He was so popular in fact, that he was given the nickname "The Sound of the Nile".

"Yes, it's quite often in the Arabic world that these nicknames are given to a singer," says Tamino on the phone from his home in Antwerp.

"Sadly, he died when I was five so I don't really remember him. I have his records and I listen to them quite often at home. I especially love his live recordings because then you really hear his extraordinary voice - it has such a musicality and intensity and I'm really proud."

"Fouad had a unique character," said movie critic Tarek Shinawy, following the singer's death in 2002.

"As an actor, Fouad enjoyed his limited talents, but his songs are still sung and loved by people."

Tamino - who is signed to the UK indie label Communion - released his debut album Amir during the summer.

Its lead track, the haunting Habibi (Arabic for "my love") drew comparisons with Jeff Buckley and Thom Yorke. Particular praise was given to Tamino's voice, which soars from a throaty croon to a glass-shattering falsetto in a single breath.

"Of course it's flattering, they're amazing musicians and singers and those comparisons bring a lot of expectations and I feel like I'm just starting out and I've got so much to prove and in the end, everybody is doing their own thing and you just want to be recognised for that."

Tamino - whose first name comes from the hero of Mozart's The Magic Flute - discovered his voice when he began singing at home after school before taking himself off to Amsterdam to study music at the age of 17.

"It was very natural to always sing within my full range. I think it was because I could express some emotions better when I sing a higher set of notes and some others that are expressed within the lower frequency.

"The falsettos sound more like crying and the bass can be more like a confident sound, it was a way of expression."

Singing in English rather than French, Dutch or even Arabic - Tamino's music marries his western upbringing with his middle eastern roots, creating a sound that is unique.

On album tracks like Sun May Shine and So It Goes, the singer has used a Brussels-based orchestra or firqa made up of refugees from countries like Iraq and Syria.

"It was a conscious decision to record with an Arabic orchestra on some songs in order to emphasise it. The sound is so beautiful, they bring such greatness to it, this almost royal sound."

Tamino is not the only artist blending middle-eastern and western music, the Palestinian-Jordanian dance collective 47 Soul sold out the Jazz cafe in London earlier this year.

"Some people think it's risky to mix Arabic music with soul, dub and hip hop. We don't believe that," they told BBC Music News LIVE while artists like Omar Souleyman and Egyptian rapper Ahmed Mekky are influenced by western musicians.

Tamino points out that unlike Western musicians, an orchestra from the middle east follows the singer's lead rather than the melody in front of them.

"We wrote every arrangement down and they stick to the notes but they improvise in between and really add their own expression. They will be a bit more freestyle maybe.

"It's different every time the song is played and that's something I really admire and something I wanted for myself."

The result gives added intensity to Tamino's sound, which he says is typical of music from the Arabic culture.

"There's also a lot of sadness in Arabic music and a lot of melancholy but it progresses to something majestic which I really like. In my own music, the intensity comes from my own search for meaning and beauty but I think it's through intensity that I really can find what it is that I'm looking for within art and within music and within expressing myself."

Tamino says he tries to bring that same intensity to his live performances, which he describes as "quite transcendental".

"You have to surrender to it in order to really get to the essence. People invest in the music and there's a certain energy exchange between the musicians and the audience, it's a beautiful experience."

The young singer has already won a celebrity admirer in the shape of Radiohead bassist Colin Greenwood, who he managed to nab for a track on his album after meeting him following one of his shows in Antwerp.

"He played on one song, Indigo night, he played a beautiful bass line.

"Of course it was surreal, but we started talking and it was very pleasant - he told me that he liked the song and I asked him if he would want to play on the recording for the album and he said 'yes'. He came to the studio and it was a great experience."

The singer plays live in London on 3 December and while he has toured extensively around Europe, plans to play Egypt are currently on hold due to his own nerves about playing in the land of his forefathers.

Image copyright Kevin Winter Image caption Tamino met Greenwood after the Radiohead bassist attended the young singer's show

"We are planning on doing some shows in Lebanon and Morocco but Egypt for me is a big step because of my grandfather and because I really want to be ready for it.

"We have to really prepare for that."

Amir is out now.

Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.-------------------Cowbell dispute rings out in tranquil Bavarian town






Image copyright Getty Images Image caption How much cowbell is too much cowbell?

Life in an orderly and peaceful market town in southern Germany has been disturbed by a long-running legal battle – over cows and cowbells.

A married couple who bought a large house in the fields on the edge of Holzkirchen, south of Munich, are suing a farmer over the clanging cowbells on her cows, which graze in a neighbouring meadow.

When they first moved into their house in 2011, the field was empty, but in 2014 it was leased to Regina Killer, who runs a small dairy farm.

The couple, who have not been named, also object to the bad smells of manure and the accompanying insects.

Mrs Killer says cowbells are part of both Bavarian tradition and her livelihood.

The husband lost his original lawsuit against Mrs Killer in 2017. He is appealing against the decision at a court in Munich.

His wife has now launched a second lawsuit against the farmer.

They have also sued the local council for leasing the meadow to the farmer for grazing.

You might also like:

Disturbance claim

The cowbells clang day and night, the couple told the court - causing them to suffer depression and sleepless nights.

Image caption Mrs Killer's farm lies in the hamlet of Föching near Holzkirchen

They also argued that making cows wear a loud bell amounts to animal cruelty – and cowbells are not necessary in flat, open countryside.

"Have you ever seen a cowbell in Holland?" the court was asked.

The cows should be given GPS trackers instead of bells, they argued.

Cowbells defended

Mrs Killer and her legal team maintain that cowbells are there in case the animals escape - they allow the farmer to hear where they are, even at night.

GPS trackers, meanwhile, are expensive and still in an experimental phase, they argued.

And Mrs Killer has plenty of support.

"This is the countryside - cows and cowbells are part of our tradition," one local resident said of the row.

Another agreed: "People have to accept that we have farms around here - with cows and dung.

"That's how we have fresh milk."

Image caption The Holzkirchen cows: Indoors in winter they make less noise

But one resident simply said: "I don't think we should give opinions about this - you never know exactly what's happening if you aren't involved."

"There are always two sides to a quarrel."

And then the smell...

The mayor of Holzkirchen, Olaf von Löwis, is equally diplomatic.

"What is at stake is whether cowbells can be considered an appropriate part of agriculture in our region," he said of the row.

"The other question in this context is how far should the keeping of animals be seen as an objective disturbance," he added.

He knows the problems: emissions (excrement and odour), and their effects (flies and insects).

But "grazing is a common practice in our area and is an important pillar of agriculture", he said.

A decision on the second lawsuit, brought in by the wife, is expected at the regional court in Munich in January.

For now, there is no cowbell noise: Mrs Killer's cows spend the winter months in sheds.-------------------Good genes? The sisters who put the rest of us to shame






Image copyright Ray Wells Image caption Ann Wojcicki co-founded 23andMe in 2006

The BBC's weekly The Boss series profiles a different business leader from around the world. This week we speak to Anne Wojcicki, founder of genetic testing business 23andMe.

If you ever worry that you and your siblings are not achieving enough in life, Anne Wojcicki and her two sisters won't make you feel any better.

Anne, 45, is the chief executive of Silicon Valley-based 23andMe, which is valued as high as $2.5bn (£2bn), while Susan Wojcicki, 50, is the chief executive of You Tube - estimated annual revenues of $15bn.

Third sister Janet Wojcicki, 48, is an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of California San Francisco, where she helps lead efforts to tackle everything from obesity to HIV.

Not bad genes in that family you would guess, but Anne says it was a combination of luck and good parenting.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The sisters, Anne (left), Janet (centre) and Susan, were brought up on the campus of Stanford University where their father was a physics professor

"I think there is a lot of luck in how we all ended up," says Anne.

"We were lucky to be raised by great parents who exposed us both to communication - my mum is a journalist... and technology - my dad is a particle physicist."

And Anne recalls that her parents taught them all to be free thinkers. "I remember them telling me 'don't be afraid if someone disagrees with you'."

But if Anne believes that her upbringing was a bigger contributor to her success in life than her genetic makeup, since 2006 she has been leading a company that tests people's genes - 23andMe.

Named after the number of chromosomes in a normal human cell, the company allows members of the public to receive data about their ancestry, and - more controversially - gain information on their genetic health risks. They do this by posting off a 23andMe home saliva testing kit.

Image copyright 23andMe Image caption Users of 23andMe send off a sample of their saliva

After growing up on the campus of Stanford University, near San Francisco, where her father was a professor, Anne crossed the States to study at Yale University in Connecticut.

After graduating with a biology degree in 1996 she moved back to California to work as a molecular biology researcher at the National Institutes of Health government agency, and then the University of California, San Diego.

The idea for 23andMe came when she realised that the insurance-based US healthcare system did not put enough focus on preventing illnesses in the first place, or the poorest members of society.

"I started to see how financial incentives encouraged the healthcare system to not really care for the patients that needed their help the most," says Anne.

After all, she adds, healthcare professionals "don't make money by preaching prevention, and so I wanted to create something in the best interest of everyday people".

Anne says she was further motivated by the rise of Facebook, other forms of social media, and YouTube, which she says gave members of the public much more of a voice.

Image copyright Anne Wojcicki Image caption Anne Wojcicki says her parents have very different personalities

So in 2006 she set up 23andMe with co-founders Linda Avey and Paul Cusenza.

The test enabling people to find out more about their ancestry - such as where around the world a person's DNA comes from - was instantly popular, but the company has faced difficulty with its parallel health risks test service.

Specifically, 23andMe struggled to get regulatory approval for its health tests, due to concerns about their accuracy.

This led to a number of run-ins with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which in 2013 banned the company from marketing them.

The FDA started to give approval for 23andMe's health checks from 2015, and it can now offer them on everything from risk of certain cancers, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and coeliac disease.

"That setback [in 2013] was a challenge to overcome, and I realised we were so focused on the work to instil in our staff about the long-term vision of the company that we didn't look down the path of providing the FDA with our clinical and analytical validity," says Anne.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Anne was married to Google co-founder Sergey Brin (pictured) from 2007 until separation in 2013 and subsequent divorce in 2015

While the disputes with the FDA caused the company difficulties, it did not put off investors.

Exact figures are hard to come by because 23andMe remains a private company, but according to estimates it has now raised just over $790m, giving it the $2.5bn valuation.

An earlier investor was internet giant Google, which invested $3.9m in 2007. At the time Google co-founder Sergey Brin was married to Anne. They divorced in 2015.

More than five million people across more than 50 countries are now said to have bought and used a 23andMe home data test.

In addition to telling users about any potential genetic health risks, it aims to use the DNA data it collects - stripped of identifiers so as to keep everything anonymous - to help create new drugs and treatments.

To help achieve this goal, the company signed a four-year research and collaboration agreement this July with UK drugs giant GlaxoSmithKline.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Anne made tabloid headlines in 2016 and 2007 when she dated US baseball star Alex Rodriguez

Anne says that while the tests cannot perform miracles - she jokes that "you won't know the day you are going to die" - they can "tell us about risk factors".

She adds: "Our life expectancy is this beautiful interplay of what we're born with, and how we live... our environment plays a major role in our health."

Bradley Marin, professor of biomedical informatics at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, says that companies like 23andMe are now increasingly being taken more seriously.

"[Initially] the majority of the services provided focused on learning about one's traits and ancestral heritage," he says.

Image copyright Anne Wojcicki Image caption The three sisters were told to follow their dreams

"Our time the focus has increasingly shifted towards kinship discovery and diagnostic services, which is shifting the dynamic, making these companies less of a novelty, and more of a technology that has the potential to be quite disruptive."

On a day-to-day basis Ann says she likes to be a hands-on boss with her 500 employees. "I like knowing not just about the work someone is doing, but about who they are".

She adds that like her two sisters she is continuing to follow her passions. "All there of us really enjoy our work, and feel like we are contributing to the world."-------------------Is the driving test getting more difficult?






Image copyright Getty Images

A year since its biggest shakeup in two decades, what do we know about the driving test?

For more than 80 years, the driving test has been a rite of passage for many young adults on the path to independence. But while the principle has stayed the same, the test has frequently adapted to the country's changing roads.

Last December, there were changes to the practical side of the driving test in Great Britain.

Reversing around corners and "three-point-turns" were removed, while driving with a sat-nav and a longer test duration were introduced.

So what impact has that had, and what else do we know about the test?

1. Pass rates have remained steady

Since December 2017, when the changes were implemented, the pass rate has been 45.5%.

While the percentage of passes dropped below 46% for the first time since 2010, the rate has remained broadly the same as the rest of the 2017 average of 46.8%.

"The driving test was changed to make sure new drivers have the skills they need to help them through a lifetime of safe driving - not to make it harder," says the DVSA's Chief Driving Examiner, Mark Winn

"The old driving test spent a disproportionate amount of time on low-risk roads, such as housing estates, largely to access locations to carry out manoeuvring exercises. The changed manoeuvres, while testing the same skills, are more representative of what new drivers will encounter in their everyday driving."

In 1997, the practical test and theory test became separated, and the theory test also been adapted over the past two decades.

Statistics suggest that changes to the theory test since 2007 have had a greater impact on pass rates than changes to the practical test.

The changes saw the number of multiple questions increase from 35 to 50, and in 2012 new theory questions stopped being released online.

The theory test has had even more recent changes. In November this year, new hazard perception videos were added to include a variety of weather extremes, including snow and sleet.

2. It's easier to pass in less busy areas

London appears to be the worst place to do the test, with half of the city's test centres among the lowest pass rates.

"When it's more congested, there's a higher likelihood of coming across a challenging moment" says Jan Freeborn, a driving instructor based in London. "Driving in London, there are more challenging moments, so more opportunities for mistakes."

Bruce Johnston, a driving instructor from Haddington, East Lothian, a small town with one of the highest pass rates in Britain, agrees that experiencing more drivers on the road during a test can make it more difficult, but adds that driving in quieter areas has its own challenges.

"There is a lot of country road driving now in the test. There are narrower roads which can't fit two cars. It's all about anticipating what's around the corner."

These statistics only include driving test centres with entries of more than 1,000 in the past year, but some smaller centres - such as Golspie and Pitlochry - have pass rates of over 75%.

3. Men are better at practical, women at theory

The average pass rate for men on the practical test is 7% higher than for women.

Despite higher pass rates overall, men are involved in 57% of reported road accidents, according to government statistics.

When it comes to the theory test, women have a 5% higher pass rate.

4. Junctions are the biggest problems

For the past ten years, incorrectly observing traffic at junctions has been the top cause for failing learner drivers.

This has been closely followed by failure to use mirrors properly.

Top 10 reasons for failing 1. Observation at junctions 2. Checking mirrors 3. Control of steering wheel 4. Turning right at junctions 5. Safely moving from stationary position 6. Positioning of car on road 7. Stalling or accelerating quickly when starting 8. Response to traffic lights 9. Reverse park control 10. Response to traffic signs

Most people who pass will have at least one fault when driving, but some sail through without making any mistakes.

In 2017-18, 17,950 passed with no mistakes - that's just 1% of entrants.

5. Most people fail the first time

You're more likely to fail on your first attempt at the driving test than pass.

After your second attempt, pass rates decrease.

Last year, 15,000 people took the test for at least the sixth time, and their pass rate stood at 38%.

In 2016, the DVSA announced that England's 20 worst learner drivers had attempted the practical test more than 700 times between them.

The cheapest driving test costs £62, which would equate to £43,000 spent on tests for these drivers.

6. The test favours the young

Two-thirds of people sitting their test are 25 and under, and in terms of pass rates, they are the most successful.

For every age group after that, the test becomes more difficult.

While their pass rates are higher, younger drivers are more likely to get into accidents after the test.

Road safety charity Brake says that despite drivers aged 17-19 making up only 1.5% of UK licence holders, they are involved in 9% of fatal and serious crashes where they are the driver.-------------------Iran’s Chain Murders: A wave of killings that shook a nation






Image caption Some of the victims of the 1998 killings

It was an incident they were told never to talk about and for several years they heeded that warning. A group of 21 Iranian poets, writers and journalists believed they were heading to a literary conference in neighbouring Armenia in August 1996. But what should have been a routine trip turned into one of the most terrifying experiences of their lives.

They had hired a bus to drive them high up into the mountains through the mist-covered Heyran Pass, a steep and winding road that links two northern provinces in Iran. The 18-hour journey was beginning to take its toll and one-by-one the passengers drifted off to sleep. In the early hours of the morning, their slumber was abruptly interrupted with the sharp jolt of the bus accelerating hard.

The woken passengers watched on as the bus hurtled towards the edge of a cliff. Luckily for them, a well-placed boulder stood in the vehicle's path and prevented it from plunging to the depths below.

Among the passengers was Faraj Sarkohi, a 49-year-old journalist and then editor of the progressive cultural magazine Adineh. "After the bus stopped, we got out one by one in a state of confusion. The bus driver approached us and apologised for falling asleep," he recalls. Once they had recovered from the initial shock, the passengers and driver agreed to continue on the road.

But the perilous journey was not to end there. A few minutes later, the driver again turned the bus in the direction of the cliff, diving out of the vehicle as it approached the 1000-ft drop.

The bus was only stopped from careering over the edge again by an alert passenger who leapt into the driver's seat and pulled up the handbrake, bringing it skidding to a halt as it headed towards the precipice. The lives of all 21 on board were saved for a second time.

Image copyright Mehrnews Image caption The bus was on a mountainous pass when it was nearly driven off the road not once but twice

The writers filed off the bus, stranded and bewildered by the turn of events. From the ground, they could see the vehicle's nose teetering over the top of the cliff, with its front wheels in the air. Somehow, the driver had managed to escape and was nowhere in sight.

This time, Faraj knew it was a deliberate attempt to drive the bus off the cliff.

He saw a group of plainclothes security officials sitting in a car on the mountainous road, which would normally be virtually deserted at that time of night. These agents, he says, drove the literary group to their local office in a nearby town where they were detained for a day.

Image caption Faraj was one of the writers who survived the bus incident in 1996

"They forced us to write a letter agreeing to not speak about the incident to anybody. After this, we understood that they wanted to kill us all."

"We were shocked. We couldn't understand this deep hate and brutality. We were so shocked that we couldn't even talk to each other." Details of the dramatic episode were kept behind closed doors for several years, and were only brought to light after a chain of events that unfolded in 1998.

The politically active husband and wife

On a Sunday in November that year, Parastou Forouhar was sitting at home in Germany waiting for her parents to call, as they did every week, to hear updates on family members thousands of miles away in her native Iran. She was waiting in vain.

The 36-year-old had grown increasingly anxious when she received a phone call from a BBC journalist inquiring about her parents.

"The reporter said she had seen on the telex news that they had been attacked but she could not tell me the whole truth," she recollects.

Image copyright Supplied Image caption Dariush and Parvaneh Forouhar were married for nearly 40 years

"Afterwards I called a close friend of my parents who was living in Paris in exile and he told me that they had been killed."

Dariush and Parvaneh Forouhar were brutally murdered in their family home in southern Tehran on 22 November 1998. Dariush, 70, was stabbed 11 times. His wife, who was 12 years his junior, had been stabbed 24 times.

Both had become outspoken critics of the authorities in Iran's Islamic republic, and they ran a small secular opposition party which had, until now, been mainly tolerated.

The savage killing of the elderly couple shocked the nation and marked the beginning of what would soon become known as Iran's Chain Murders.

The writer and the translator

Nearly two weeks after Parastou heard the devastating news, Mohammad Mokhtari said goodbye to his 12-year-old son as he stepped outside of his house in Tehran to run some chores.

"The last memory I have of him was the moment he left our home. I asked him to buy some milk as he was standing in front of the door. But he was a little bit different, as though he felt something wasn't quite right," his son Sohrab, now an adult living in Germany, recalls.

Mohammad, 56, was a writer, poet and outspoken critic of press censorship in Iran. He never came home.

Image copyright Supplied Image caption Sohrab's family was left in the dark for a week over the author's disappearance

Sohrab's older brother spent the next seven days searching hospitals and police stations across Tehran for his missing father. What he didn't know was a body had already turned up at a cement factory on the outskirts of the city, a day after Mohammad's disappearance on 3 December.

The family were not informed until a week later.

"My brother got a call from the medical authorities to come and identify his body. We were told he had no documentation or ID in his pocket, which was why they did not call sooner," Sohrab says. According to the authorities, all that was found on Mohammad Mokhtari's body was a piece of paper and pen. He had been strangled to death, and his body reportedly bore bruising around the neck.

On the same day the Mokhtari brothers discovered their father's fate, a family friend and fellow writer also disappeared.

Mohammad Jafar Pouyandeh, 44, was a translator who was established in the literary world but still relatively unknown in the public eye. He was abducted outside his office in downtown Tehran in the middle of the day on 9 December.

Three days later, his body was discovered and, much like his friend, there were signs he had been strangled.

Read more stories from Iran:

The deadly link

Mokhtari and Pouyandeh shared one thing in common - they belonged to the Iranian Writers' Association (IWA), the same group that had organised the aborted bus trip to Armenia two years prior. They had been, at some point or another, openly critical of the Iranian authorities.

The association, which brought together like-minded progressive writers, poets, journalists and translators in a bid to fight censorship, had found its activities strictly curtailed under successive governments, and was banned shortly after Iran's Islamic revolution of 1979.

Faraj Sarkohi, who was one of the IWA's most prominent members during the 90s, describes how they managed to bypass the ban.

"It existed because it had such a huge support. We held dinner parties to discuss our ideas behind closed doors - some were even hosted in my own house. We knew that we were being listened to but we had no other choice."

Image copyright Supplied Image caption Mohammad Jafar Pouyandeh, pictured here with his wife and young daughter, was killed within days of his associate, Mohammad Mokhtari

A turning point came in 1994, when 134 members tried to breathe fresh life into the IWA by signing an open letter demanding freedom of expression in Iran. The text, which was never published in Iran, picked up a lot of support both inside and outside of the country.

Among those who helped to draft the text were Faraj, Mokhtari, Pouyandeh and several other writers who, two years later, would take the ill-fated bus journey to Armenia.

Just a few weeks before their murders in 1998, Mokhtari, Pouyandeh and four other writers were summoned to court over their efforts to stage an IWA conference. There they were interrogated and told firmly to drop their plans.

Mokhtari's son, Sohrab, describes a climate of fear in his household growing up, and the amount of pressure members like his father were under.

"My father was threatened many times. I remember one time he got very angry at my mother after she told me this."

"The security services controlled everything about him - they controlled his phone calls and any contact he had with other writers and intellectuals involved in fighting for freedom of expression."

The outrage and 'investigation'

Political assassinations were nothing new to Iran, but the savage nature of the Forouhar couple's murders caught the public's attention.

"What got me was the brutality of the killing - my mother was stabbed to death 24 times, and my father was killed in his study chair which was placed in the direction of Mecca in some kind of ritual killing," says Parastou, whose parents were secularists campaigning for democracy in Iran when they were killed.

"Society in Iran was shocked and very angry. That is why there was a huge demonstration when my parents were being buried - and thousands of people came."

Image copyright Supplied Image caption The chair on which Dariush Forouhar was killed - his family say the murderers deliberately placed it facing towards Mecca

People began to suspect the murders were politically motivated.

They were widely seen as part of a power struggle between Islamic hardliners who still had significant influence over the intelligence services and reformists allied to President Mohammad Khatami, whose push for greater freedom and democracy in Iran swept him to power in the summer of 1997.

Pressure began to build and in December 1998 President Khatami ordered an investigation into the killings of the Forouhars, as well as the circumstances surrounding the deaths of Mokhtari and Pouyandeh.

Just a few weeks later, in January 1999, the authorities, in a rare acknowledgement, said a number of rogue agents in the intelligence ministry had carried out the murders.

The main suspect and mastermind, they said, was a former deputy intelligence minister called Saeed Emami. He died under suspicious circumstances in custody, with officials saying he had committed suicide by swallowing a bottle of hair remover.

In total, 18 people went on trial; three people were sentenced to death (sentences that were later commuted to prison terms), two were given varying jail time and three others were acquitted.

Among those to stand trial was Khosro Barati, who later reportedly confessed to being the driver in the bus incident.

Image copyright Supplied Image caption Saeed Emami was accused of being the mastermind of the 1998 killings

But the families of the victims rejected the investigation's findings, believing it to be a sham. The Forouhar couple's daughter, Parastou, and her lawyer, the Nobel Peace Prize-winning Shirin Ebadi, pored through all of the confessions.

"Each suspect said they had acted through the orders of the intelligence minister himself. This was in their confessions but the court did not follow this line, they just acted as if people would kill other people for no political reasons," Parastou says.

The intelligence chief, Ghorbanali Dorri-Najafabadi, resigned over the case but always denied any involvement.

A series of videotapes leaked several years later appeared to show violence being used against some of the suspects to force them into giving confessions.

Image copyright Supplied

In the meantime, several investigative journalists started digging into the case and found links to other, unsolved and mysterious killings of intellectuals and writers dating back to the late 1980s through a variety of means, including choking, stabbing and even injections of potassium to stimulate heart attacks.

One of them, Akbar Ganji, was imprisoned for five years after publishing a series of stories pointing the finger at a high level minister in the previous government, as well as some senior clerics. None of these claims were ever investigated by the Iranian state, and most of the killings remain unsolved.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Since his release in 2006, Akbar Ganji has campaigned on behalf of other political prisoners in Iran

Fellow journalist Faraj Sarkohi says he considers himself lucky to have survived the ill-fated bus journey. He has, though, remained a target. Not long after the bus incident, he was kidnapped by the Iranian secret service and only managed to avoid a death sentence after the interventions of the international community. He now lives in self-imposed exile in Germany.

For Sohrab, whose father was killed before he had even reached his teens, the loss was "the end of the world".

"I couldn't really understand what had happened - I didn't know anything about life or death at that age."

Parastou is now an award-winning artist who still resides in Germany but returns to Tehran every autumn to pay tribute to her parents. She says the authorities have often blocked her and other relatives of victims from holding these memorials.

"It is now 20 years on, and the memory is still alive, as is the wish for justice and due process."

Additional reporting from Niki Mahjoub-------------------Viewpoint: Jameela Jamil on why airbrushing should be illegal






Image copyright Sela Shiloni

The actress Jameela Jamil, best known for her role in US TV series The Good Place, says airbrushing is a crime against women and should be illegal.

She's one of this year's BBC 100 Women and has also started @i_weigh - a social media initiative designed for people to share what makes them unique and valuable, outside of their appearance.

I would like to put airbrushing in the bin. I want it gone. I want it out of here.

I think it's a disgusting tool that has been weaponised, predominantly against women, and is responsible for so many more problems than we realise because we are blinded by the media, our culture and our society.

I suffered from eating disorders as a teenager and so I know how damaging 'perfect' images in magazines can be.

Image copyright Getty Images

Here are the reasons why I want to have it banned:

It's a lie to the consumer

If you buy the products airbrushing is used to advertise, you won't look like the person in the photograph.

It's used to smooth lines, hide blemishes, lighten skin, slim features, lengthen limbs, and brighten eyes and teeth.

It exists to sell a fantasy to the consumer that this 'perfection' is indeed possible. If you have yet to achieve this beauty standard, it tells you, you should buy some expensive products immediately, because then you will look like the person in the photo. (But, as I said just a moment ago, you won't.)

How is this ethical or even legal?

Image copyright Sarah Brimley Image caption BBC reporter Tulip Mazumdar underwent airbrushing for 100 Women in 2013

It's bad for the person being photographed

If you see a digitally 'enhanced' picture of yourself, you run the risk of becoming acclimatised to that level of flawlessness and it makes it harder for you to accept your actual image - the one that exists in real life, in the mirror.

You then might want to take measures to match what is achieved on the screen.

Often this is only achievable with expensive, painful and often risky cosmetic procedures or surgery.

Filters and digital editing have almost certainly contributed to the fact so many of the women I know have turned to needles, knives and extreme diets to try to match their online avatar.

When photo editors try to lighten my skin and change my ethnicity, it's bad for the girls who are looking at the picture. But it's also bad for my mental health.

It makes me dislike what I'm seeing in the mirror. It's a message from the editor to me that I am not good enough as I am.

It's so, so bad for the public, especially young women

People don't realise the image they are looking at has been airbrushed (and let's face it, almost nobody owns up to the fact it has).

Admissions to hospitals for severe eating disorders have almost doubled over the last six years, NHS figures showed earlier this year. Two-thirds of teenage girls and young women don't think they're pretty enough. And 93% think they're judged on their appearance more than their ability.

At one point, while presenting the Official Chart Show on BBC Radio 1, I gained 200,000 listeners which was great. But instead of telling that story, that same day the newspapers reported that I'd gained two dress sizes and printed loads of photographs fat-shaming me and ridiculing my body.

Meanwhile the beauty and cosmetic procedure industries are booming, the diet industry is at an all-time high, and social media filters and photo editing apps have emerged.

When you filter a woman's photo you are legitimising the patriarchy's absurd aesthetic standards, that women should be attractive to the straight, male gaze at all costs. When you filter your selfies, you are doing the same thing.

In contrast, we shoot men in high definition on magazine covers. But for them, the inevitable lines of age are a sign of distinction and rugged attractiveness.

Men are allowed to wear baggy clothes to cover their bellies and they aren't subjected to couture modelled by emaciated 16-year-olds on runways.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jameela with D'Arcy Carden and Kristen Bell, her co-stars on The Good Place

Men get a green light on ageing and gravity. Why can't women get the same allowances?

It is anti-feminist. It is ageist. It is fat-phobic. It looks weird. It looks wrong. It's robbing you of your time, money, comfort, integrity and self worth. Delete the apps and unfollow those who are complicit in this crime against our gender.

We need to see spots. We need to see wrinkles. We need to see cellulite and stretch marks. If not, we will become almost allergic to the sight of them, even though we all have these things on our own bodies. We need to be honest with ourselves and with each other so that we can all be free.

Don't give your money to any institution that sells you the lie of 'perfection'. They are trying to break you, so you will hate yourself and go out and buy something you don't need, in order to fix something that was never broken in the first place.

See who is on our 2018 BBC 100 Women list.

Follow BBC 100 Women on Instagram and Facebook and join the conversation.

Read more:-------------------'Rejected by my family, raped






Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Many LGBT Asians face abuse from their own families

Seyeda has been rejected by her family, abused and raped because she is gay - but is determined to be out and proud.

The 42-year-old from Pakistan believes she would have been killed if she had not moved to the UK.

"I can't even imagine (what would have happened). I don't think I would be alive there.

"But there is no looking back. If people are harassing me, I need to make myself more strong."

Seyeda - whose parents died before they discovered her sexuality - was under pressure from an early age to marry a cousin.

"I didn't want to because I knew of my orientation," she told BBC Radio 5 Live Investigates.

A new report from LGBT domestic abuse charity Galop reveals around one in four of the cases seen by their advocacy service has been abused by family members - while one in ten is at risk of 'honour-based' violence or forced marriage.

'Bad time'

University provided no escape for Seyeda. After a supervisor discovered her sexuality, she says she was forced off her PhD programme, and left without accommodation.

"I didn't have anywhere to stay," she explained. "If you are a woman on your own in Pakistan, you can't live anywhere.

"I have uncles and aunts in Pakistan, and I was begging to stay (with them). But they weren't ready to (let me) - and I was not ready to get married in the way they wanted me to.

"Once the extended family came to know about my sexuality, I had a bad time."

She describes being pushed down the stairs by a male relative, her teeth knocked out. Eventually she was thrown out of the family home.

She ended up staying with friends, and meeting a girlfriend - whose husband, Seyeda said, raped both her and her friend when he discovered their relationship.

"That was the most horrible night of my life," she said. "I struggled a lot after that."

Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption LGBT domestic abuse charity Galop says more specialised services are needed for survivors

Seyeda escaped by coming to the UK as a student in 2010.

Yet despite what she calls the "protection of law and order" in the UK, she has been the victim of an attempted rape here - and says she receives threatening emails and messages from anonymous numbers.

But she is determined to campaign for greater freedoms for people like her. She attends Pride events, and has spoken publicly about her experiences.

She is shocked by how many British-born Asians insist on hiding their sexuality - and that forced marriage in the Asian LGBT community is common.

"I was astonished that people don't come out or inform their families, even though they have the protection of the law. And that is the problem. They come to LGBT gatherings - and they just hide their faces.

'Ruining lives'

"They don't want to tell their families what they are. And this is making them more sick and confused.

"There are many gays here who get married just because of their families. But they are ruining other peoples' lives."

Matt Ogston-Mahmood has devastating first-hand experience of the impact of conservative religious attitudes to homosexuality.

His fiancé, Naz Mahmood, took his own life two days after being confronted about his sexuality by his conservative Muslim parents.

Now Matt campaigns against what he calls 'religious homophobia' - and is calling for it to become an officially recorded hate crime.

"My inbox is full of messages from gay men and women who say their conservative religious parents would rather they were dead than for them to be accepted in their family," he told BBC Radio 5 Live Investigates.

Image copyright Naz & Matt Foundation Image caption The Naz & Matt Foundation campaigns for the LGBT community to be free from religious intolerance

Deputy Chief Constable Louisa Rolfe of the National Police Chiefs' Council (NPCC) said officers are "really keen" to understand the threat of forced marriage or 'honour-based' abuse within the LGBT community.

"These cases are so sensitive and we work really hard to ensure that victims can trust the officers that they work with," she added.

Gay and lesbian people from ethnic minorities can be more vulnerable to abuse in relationships, as well as from their families, said Professor Rusi Jaspal of Leicester De Montfort University.

"People who are abused as children may come to accept further instances of abuse in adulthood - either because they have come to believe they deserve it, or because it has become normalised in their minds," he explained.

Changing attitudes

The Home Office, in a statement, said the Government is committed to transforming the response to domestic abuse. It added: "No one, regardless of age, gender or sexuality deserves to endure any type of abuse, especially from those closest to them."

Meanwhile, Seyeda said she believes LGBT people from culturally conservative backgrounds have a duty to change attitudes.

"It is necessary. If you hide yourself - who will accept you as you are?"

BBC Radio 5 Live Investigates is on from 11:00 on Sunday December 2 on BBC Radio 5 Live.-------------------Wilder v Fury: Tyson Fury says 'world knows who real champion is' after draw






Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder are both undefeated as professionals

Tyson Fury says "the world knows who the real WBC champion is" and believes his draw with Deontay Wilder was "a gift decision" for the American.

Fury, 30, shared a thrilling battle in Los Angeles, with many former professionals saying he won the bout.

Promoter Frank Warren said he and the British Boxing Board of Control will write to the WBC demanding a rematch.

Speaking the day after the bout, Fury said: "To be honest, I've never seen a worse decision in my life."

The Briton added: "I don't know what fight they were watching."

Former world champions including Floyd Mayweather, Lennox Lewis, Tony Bellew and Carl Froch believed Fury had won.

Fury was floored in the ninth and final rounds - meaning they were scored 10-8 in Wilder's favour.

After the 12 rounds, the fight was scored 115-111 for Wilder, 114-112 for Fury and 113-113 with Alejandro Rochin the judge who had the American as the winner.

"I don't know what he was watching," added Fury. "It's stuff like this that gives boxing a bad name. All the media will report bad stuff. Everyone in boxing saying a bad thing, time and again we see it. He needs banning from boxing forever.

"The world knows who the real WBC champion is. Wilder had a gift decision in his own country. He must be thanking his lucky stars he still has the green and gold belt as that belt belongs to me."

'I didn't get wet, I got drenched'

Media playback is not supported on this device Wilder v Fury: Fight was 'the best comeback in boxing history'

Less than 12 hours after the contest, Fury sported cuts and bruises at a Los Angeles hotel for his news conference. He said he had managed to go to bed and watch snippets of the fight, adding he will "go home a hero".

His remarkable rise from the canvas after a devastating combination from Wilder in the final round was a hot topic, with Fury stating he was "like a phoenix rising from the ashes".

"It's easy to beat me - nail me to the canvas," Fury added.

"Credit to him, he caught me flush. I got up and don't know how. You can't go swimming and not get wet. I got wet, drenched actually.

"When you're on your back flat out, you don't know what your legs will be like. I see it in boxing, they get up after a few seconds and the legs are gone.

"I gave myself the time. Fair play to the referee, fantastic, one of the best I have ever experienced."

Fury 'in a great place' after mental health struggles

Fury said his 26-year-old trainer Ben Davison, who was under scrutiny due to his inexperience, should be given the prestigious Ring Magazine Trainer of the Year award.

Davison has helped his fighter shed 10 stone in weight following a tumultuous 30-month spell away from boxing in the aftermath of his 2015 world-title success over Wladimir Klitschko, where he battled depression and accepted a backdated two-year UK Anti-Doping ban.

"Am I going to go AWOL again? We are prepared this time," Fury said.

"Last time was nothing to do with media. I was suffering with mental health. When you give up the passion to live, you're in a bad place. I was already depressed before the Klitschko fight, heavily. Now I am in a great place.

"Look back at the videos, I was in an ill state. Now I am happy to be healthy. The most important thing is my health. Thank God I am alive and well. I go back chin up, chest out."

Analysis

BBC Sport boxing correspondent Mike Costello

Tyson Fury was so bright and so sporting the morning after a night which has been good for boxing.

In Fury, we are charting one of the most remarkable stories we have ever been attached to in any sport.

BBC Radio 5 live analyst Steve Bunce

Within three seconds of the bell I was up on the ring in the corner. At times Wilder was five feet away. He was thanking people in Tyson's camp for a great fight, he knew he had lost.

In the 12th round, the fight was over. People had their head in their hands. Time stood still. If you're not sucked in by it, this kid's storyline, you need to switch out of sports and go and do the arts.-------------------Jurgen Klopp celebration: One for the ages or 'absolutely shocking' behaviour?






Media playback is not supported on this device Liverpool 1-0 Everton: Klopp apologies for running on pitch after winner

"Alisson was surprised - you should have seen his eyes!"

Liverpool's Brazilian goalkeeper wasn't the only one. Nobody could quite believe their eyes when Jurgen Klopp sprinted on to the Anfield pitch in celebration at Divock Origi's crazy stoppage-time winner in the Merseyside derby.

It was a truly bizarre goal. Virgil van Dijk's shot looked to be looping harmlessly out of play, but dropped back down and, with England goalkeeper Jordan Pickford making a mess of tipping it clear, Origi was on hand to head in the loose ball and send home manager Klopp on an impromptu sprint on to the playing field.

The former centre-back certainly had a bit more pace than another famous touchline incursion in Premier League history.

Manchester United assistant Brian Kidd celebrated on his knees when Steve Bruce scored a late winner in the first Premier League season

But were you shocked by Klopp? Or did you love the passion? Reaction was divided...

'I apologise but I couldn't stop myself'

Klopp broke the rules of the game by entering the pitch, with managers confined to the technical area around the dugouts "except in special circumstances".

Jurgen Klopp sprinted on to the pitch and into the arms of goalkeeper Alisson before returning to the sideline

He was quick to apologise after the match and added that he would wait for any Football Association reaction.

"I have to apologise because I didn't want to be disrespectful but I couldn't stop myself. It just happened," he said.

"I'm not sure what the FA has to do in a situation like this but I will have to wait.

"If I could describe how I felt when the goal went in, then I would have control over it. We don't want to look for excuses but that's how it is.

"The plan was not to run [on to the pitch to celebrate]. When I chose to stop I was close to Alisson. He was surprised!"

BBC 5 live summariser Robbie Savage said that he had "never seen anything like it", while Silva had no issue with Klopp's actions.

"I didn't see Klopp's reaction and if we scored that goal and had been so lucky I might have done the same," he said.

"I didn't see any disrespect."

Is there a cultural difference too? In 2017, Klopp's former Borussia Dortmund assistant David Wagner was banned for two games for running down the touchline to celebrate a winner against Leeds.

He said: "In British culture it seems to be disrespectful if I celebrate with my players - it is different in Germany to be fair,"

'Absolutely shocking, Klopp should be punished'

But not everybody was so forgiving.

Former England full-back Danny Mills was scathing of Klopp's behaviour on BBC Radio 5 live.

"I would like to think that Jurgen Klopp will get into trouble for that," he said.

Everton boss Marco Silva said he had no problem with Klopp's reaction after the game

"If other managers do that - and we know one in particular - he'd get absolutely slaughtered.

"I think it's absolutely shocking what Jurgen Klopp does. Ok, go down the touchline a little bit, come out of your technical area, celebrate with your staff on the bench - I don't have a problem with that at all.

"But to run into the middle of the pitch, I think it's disrespectful to Everton.

"There are so many managers that get absolutely hammered but Klopp is very media friendly, everybody seems to love him and he can't do anything wrong.

"You cannot go on to the middle of the pitch, no matter what the circumstances."

'We are consoling Jordan'

Jordan Pickford was 'unlucky' in the way he conceded the late goal, said team-mate Michael Keane

For Pickford, the goal was a low point for one of England's World Cup heroes. He had made a fine save in the first half to deny Xherdan Shaqiri but totally misjudged Van Dijk's wild shot to gift Liverpool two points.

"Everyone is devastated and silent in the dressing room, we are consoling Jordan," said defender Michael Keane.

"He got unlucky. He has been brilliant for us. Everyone is devastated because of the work we put in. We had our chances and came close. We are devastated for ourselves and the fans."

"We will analyse the moment with Jordan, it was a bad moment for him," said Silva.

"But I told him he has done many amazing things. It was a lucky day for Liverpool."

Media playback is not supported on this device 'I don't understand how he thinks he can catch that' - Wright on Pickford error

'Nothing wrong with that'

How you reacted on #bbcfootball or 81111.

Khan Karn: Nothing wrong with that kind of celebration, any manager would do it in the last minute of a cup final. Worldwide we have seen it so many times, with no retrospective action either.

James, Somerset: Alex Ferguson did it in '93. Nobody batted an eyelid. Stop sensationalising a sudden burst of relief and emotion.

Neil Harris: Agree with Danny Mills, why allow emotion in a football match? Why spoil a sterile, serious game with a hint of celebration and fun, just because there was a 96th-minute winner? Shouldn't be allowed.

Andy Tilly: Silly of Klopp doing that but you know what Bill Shankly used to say: Never give up until the final second.

Callum, Nottingham: Can't wait to hear everyone praising Klopp's display of 'passion'. If that was Mourinho, he'd be absolutely slaughtered.

Dan Jones: Don't normally agree with Danny Mills but he's bang on about Klopp running on to the pitch. If it was Mourinho/Warnock/Benitez etc, everyone would be making a big thing about it. The FA need to be fair instead of letting the likes of Klopp/Pep etc get away with things...-------------------Celtic League Cup win 'most satisfying' of seven in a row for Brendan Rodgers






Rodgers praised match-winner Ryan Christie

Brendan Rodgers says his third League Cup triumph is the "most satisfying" of the seven successive trophies he has won since becoming Celtic manager.

Ryan Christie scored the only goal at Hampden as Celtic overcame stubborn resistance from Aberdeen.

The 1-0 victory follows Thursday's Europa League success against Rosenborg in Norway.

"We played against a tough team at the end of a tough week," Rodgers told BBC Scotland at the national stadium.

"Probably of all the trophies that we've won, this is the most satisfying because it wasn't an easy start to the season for us.

"The players showed that mentality and strength and talent. Big hearts they've got and now another trophy.

"I take great pride in the fact we've now won seven trophies in a row, and it feels great, but my happiness is more for the players and the supporters. The players deserve a huge amount of credit because they've been amazing since I've come in."

Match-winner Christie spent 18 months on loan with Aberdeen before returning to Celtic over the summer.

The 23-year-old midfielder has enjoyed an influential run of games, scoring five goals and providing four assists in his past 10 appearances for club and country and earning a new contract.

"I said to him that's the football gods," said Rodgers. "Aberdeen played a big part in his development.

"He's come back and shown he's ready to be a Celtic performer and, the last two months, he's been amazing. He deserves the man of the match.

"When I first came up here, he used to be Charlie Christie's son and now Charlie is known as Ryan Christie's dad.

"To show the quality for our goal, which was probably our biggest moment of the first half, was very pleasing. We had a sequence of passes and worked our way through their man-marking and ended up with a great goal.

"My only disappointment in the second half was that we could have been more clinical. In key moments, especially when we're having to defend a bit deeper, we broke away fantastic.

"We broke with pace, and the support we had up there, we never made the last pass, which then makes the game a lot tighter towards the end than it should have been."-------------------Arsenal 4-2 Tottenham Hotspur: Unai Emery praises 'special' comeback






Media playback is not supported on this device Arsenal 4-2 Tottenham: Emery hails 'important' derby win

Arsenal's relentless attacking performance to overpower Tottenham was a "special" moment, says Unai Emery.

His side extended their unbeaten run to 19 matches, moving above Spurs into the top four, with a display that reflected the outstanding work the Spaniard has done since succeeding Arsene Wenger.

Despite his satisfaction at beating their arch-rivals in his first north London derby, Emery has challenged his players to continue improving.

"It is a very big victory; we showed our supporters and we gave them the victory because it is a very special match against Tottenham, for us it is special also," the Arsenal manager said.

"But above all it is three points, like against Bournemouth last weekend.

"We need to continue our process, creating our way. I want to do more."

Arsenal's fast start drew early reward when Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang put them ahead from the spot after Jan Vertonghen's handball.

Yet Spurs, against the run of play, were ahead before the break. Eric Dier glanced home Christian Eriksen's free-kick to equalise, sparking a melee involving players from both sides with his celebrations in front of Arsenal's fans, before Harry Kane scored from the spot after Rob Holding was penalised for a challenge on Son Heung-min.

Emery introduced Alexandre Lacazette and Aaron Ramsey at the start of the second half to dramatic effect.

The Welshman set up Aubameyang's magnificent finish and the France striker's deflected shot beat goalkeeper Hugo Lloris from the edge of the area to put Arsenal ahead with 16 minutes left.

The outstanding Lucas Torreira ran clear to wrap up Arsenal's win and Spurs' misery was complete when Vertonghen was sent off for a foul on Lacazette.

"Until they scored the third goal I think the game was even, after that we started to pay," Spurs manager Mauricio Pochettino said.

"It was difficult for the team to show the energy that we normally show."

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is the first player to reach 10 goals in the Premier League this season

Arsenal revival gathers pace

The manner in which Arsenal pressed and powered Spurs into submission here was remarkable but further evidence of their transformation under Emery.

The former Sevilla and Paris St-Germain manager has galvanised the club on and off the pitch after the stale end to the Wenger era. He was a constant blur of movement in his technical area almost guiding every move by hand.

Emery has, crucially, made an instant connection with Arsenal's fans, regularly urging them to turn up the volume at moments when the stadium threatened to go quiet.

Arsenal simply refused to give an inch to Spurs and Emery was bold when Spurs led at half-time, sending on Lacazette and Ramsey.

His side had played well in the first half, but the changes gave them a turbo-charge.

It was said the true test of Emery's work would come when they faced their closest rivals. This was an examination they passed with flying colours.

Spurs overpowered in their own style

Media playback is not supported on this device Arsenal 4-2 Tottenham: Spurs 'pay' for tough week says Pochettino

Spurs and manager Mauricio Pochettino have made their name with the intensity of their attacking, pressing style backed up by obvious quality.

Here, however, they had all their own strengths turned back on them by Arsenal and almost seemed in a daze as they were swept aside in the latter stages.

Arsenal had Spurs in trouble instantly and barely let go, even when Dier and Kane somehow had the visitors going in at the interval ahead.

Spurs could not create in attack, were impotent in midfield and vulnerable at the back where Vertonghen's uncomfortable afternoon saw him concede a penalty and receive a red card - while youngster Juan Foyth was punished for giving the ball away when Lacazette putting Arsenal in front.

They now lie outside the top four but will surely come again. Here, however, they were comprehensively outplayed.

Players from both sides, including some of those on the bench, clashed on the touchline as Tottenham celebrated their equaliser. Spurs boss Mauricio Pochettino ran down the touchline to try to defuse the situation

Torreira every inch a bargain

Torreira confirmed his status as a new Arsenal hero when he advanced into the penalty area to drill in his first goal for the club and secure this outstanding victory.

The Uruguay international, a £26m buy from Sampdoria in July, celebrated his goal by throwing off his shirt in front of exultant Arsenal fans.

He is tenacious and fierce in the tackle but brings so much more with his game. He has silk as well as steel, refusing to flinch from the physical exchanges here, yet always willing to create.

Torreira may not have been the most expensive piece of business conducted in the summer market but he looks one of the smartest.

Man of the match - Lucas Torreira (Arsenal)

Arsenal midfielder Lucas Torreira won possession back for his team 12 times against Spurs - more than any other player on the pitch

Arsenal show new-found resilience - key stats

The last time Arsenal won a north London derby in the Premier League after trailing at half time was in September 2007 - a 3-1 victory.

They have scored more second-half goals than any other side in the Premier League this season (24).

If Premier League matches finished at half-time this season, Arsenal would be 19th in the table.

Arsenal have found the net at least once in each of their past 23 home games against Spurs in all competitions, since a goalless draw in November 1998.

Tottenham have dropped more points from winning positions in Premier League games against Arsenal than any side has against another in the competition (40).

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is the first player to score with 10 consecutive shots on target in the Premier League since Blackburn's Benni McCarthy in October 2007.

Since his debut in the Premier League in February, only Mohamed Salah (20) has scored as many goals in the competition as Aubameyang (20).

No player has scored more Premier League north London derby goals than Harry Kane, was had eight - putting him level with Emmanuel Adebayor.

What's next?

A two-day break and then back to Premier League action on Wednesday.

Arsenal face another game against fierce rivals when they visit Manchester United at 20:00 GMT, while Tottenham host struggling Southampton at Wembley at the same time.-------------------Ronnie O'Sullivan 'ready to go' with breakaway snooker tour






On the 2018/19 snooker calendar there are 20 ranking events played across Great Britain, Europe and Asia.

Ronnie O'Sullivan says he is "ready to go" and form a breakaway "Champions League-style" snooker tour.

The five-time world champion is unhappy with the number of events on the calendar and the travelling required.

The 43-year-old says Stephen Hendry is "ready to come out of retirement" and hopes John Higgins joins too.

But 1997 world champion Ken Doherty said he did not think the public would like the tour, and doubted if Higgins would be interested.

"You need those players on the tour but I could not see how it would work," Doherty said.

O'Sullivan suggested that, in addition to seven-time world champion Hendry, he would also invite Yu Delu and Cao Yupeng, the two recently banned Chinese players.

"I am looking for seven or eight real top-quality players," said O'Sullivan after his narrow second-round victory over Doherty at the UK Championship.

"I am just waiting for four or five unhappy players. I am ready to go and if someone offered me the opportunity to play on another platform, I would be gone tomorrow.

"I want to play in quality events, good venues against great players and that is what inspires me. The tour is fantastic for a lot of people but it is not for everybody.

There is space for two tours. Everyone loves choice Ronnie O'Sullivan

"I am being patient because I still have 15 years left in this game and I feel I can play into my mid-50s easily. There is no rush."

O'Sullivan's comments come following a series of run-ins with World Snooker over the last year, in particular with chairman Barry Hearn.

Earlier this month, O'Sullivan called Hearn a "dictator" for the way the sport is run. In January, Hearn said the sport could survive without O'Sullivan.

At last year's World Championship, O'Sullivan claimed he was being "bullied" by snooker authorities, an allegation Hearn rejected as being "unfounded".

O'Sullivan, who says he has had conversations with financial backers, explained how he thinks his proposed breakaway would work:

Why does it need to happen?

"The public will have the choice of the best playing each other every week. You don't see Leyton Orient turning up to play Lionel Messi at Barcelona. It does not happen. It is demotivating.

"Messi would get fed up having to playing Huddersfield Town and Orient. He wants to play against Cristiano Ronaldo and wants to hear the Champions League music. It gets you excited. There is space for two tours. Everyone loves choice.

"As a sportsman, I like to see the green jacket in golf, I like to see Roger Federer in tennis coming out looking slick at Wimbledon. I don't want to see Federer at Richmond Park having to qualify for Wimbledon.

"The guy deserves a bit more than that. If they asked him to do that he would probably swerve it. John Higgins is no different to Federer or Rafael Nadal, they are in different sports but at the same level of class."

Who would be involved?

"It is a chance to get John Higgins, the two Chinese players [Yu Delu and Cao Yupeng] who have been banned, and I know another couple of top-ranked Chinese players who are unhappy at the travelling they have to do, playing in qualifiers at Barnsley.

"Stephen Hendry is ready to come out of retirement and is up for it and three or four other good players. I would have to have a package in place but I need players.

"I am ready but I cannot do it on my own. The whole idea is to play against quality players day in day out."

What would be the format?

"I doesn't need lots of top players, I am not looking for an alternative tour. I am looking for seven or eight real top-quality players, Champions League or ATP tennis style. Every match would be a final.

"You have your 128 players that you might want to watch, and then the crème de la crème playing match in, match out. It would be very different.

"I would not dream of putting an event on in which one guy is mauling another. It would have to be competitive."

Would players have to give up their tour card?

"Absolutely. It is a risk for Higgins and people like that.

"The 64th ranked player in the world might have played in 13 events and six months into the season he has made around £14,000. Do your maths, he has to find food money from somewhere.

"It is up to people to make a decision. I am looking for people who are ready and are at the point of no return."

The current world number 64, Craig Steadman, has earned £16,500 this season from the eight events that he has played in.

Where would it be played?

"There is talk about Abu Dhabi, Dubai, China is a nailed on one, Europe is very big. There are so many places you can go. They are just the start. We are talking at the moment."

'Higgins would not be up for it, no way'

While O'Sullivan is enthused at the prospect of a breakaway, his beaten opponent on Sunday takes a different view.

"It would [be sad]," said 1997 world champion Doherty. "They have tried it in other sports but it never really peeled off.

"Maybe darts [the PDC split from the BDO in the 1990s] in is a different example. But I don't think the public would like it. They want to see them playing in all the blue riband events including the UK Championship.

"Why would you want to break away when you can create amazing records, more than what O'Sullivan has already has done?

"Knowing John Higgins, I don't think he would be up for it anyway, no way."-------------------'Europa League 2': Uefa confirms new tournament from 2021






Uefa president Aleksander Ceferin confirmed the news after their meeting in Dublin

A third European club competition with the working title 'Europa League 2' will be introduced from 2021.

One English team will enter the play-offs of the new tournament, while Scottish sides may miss out on Europa League places in a reshuffle.

As part of Uefa's 2021-2024 cycle, the Europa League will be halved in size to 32 teams with an extra play-off round between the group stage and last 16.

The new tournament will be played on Thursdays alongside the Europa League.

Every country's champions will still enter the Champions League, but only teams from the 15 top-ranked countries will go into the Europa League group stages or qualifiers.

That means teams from leagues below that level - which at the moment would include Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, excluding their champions - would go straight into 'UEL2' qualifying rounds.

The new competition and Europa League will have the same format - eight groups of four teams with the winners going into the last 16. There will be a play-off before that round for the teams who finish second in the group and sides who finish third in the groups of the higher tournament.

The winners of the tournament will qualify for the following season's Europa League.

The Champions League format does not change.

Uefa president Aleksander Ceferin said: "The new competition makes Uefa's club competitions more inclusive than ever before. There will be more matches for more clubs, with more associations represented in the group stages.

"This competition was born out of ongoing dialogue with clubs through the European Club Association."

At least 34 countries will have teams in a group stage, compared to 26 at the moment.-------------------FA Cup Magic second round: Kung-fu kicks, hair-raising punditry & FA Cup funnies






Watch the quirkier moments from the second round of the FA Cup so far, including some great goals, kung-fu kicks, and a cup upset from Woking.

WATCH MORE: Saturday's Cup Magic: Fancy dress, Dion's tuck shop, worldies & FA Cup funnies

Available to UK users only.-------------------Viewpoint: 'Why engagement rings objectify women'






Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Matilde is not married at the moment but she lives with her partner

Media strategist Matilde Suescún believes that the fairytale aspiration of a big expensive engagement ring is damaging for women.

She believes this fantasy should be stopped, and writes for BBC 100 Women about why things need to change.

I have been married twice in the past, and may marry again, but I have never had or wanted an engagement ring.

I believe engagement rings are anti-feminist. They symbolise an attitude which is in complete antithesis to the idea of an independent woman - signifying that the woman with the ring belongs to another person.

They are also a way of signifying status: the bigger the diamond, the greater apparent value they give to the woman wearing it.

Why did women only get one day to propose?

All of my friends here in the US disagree with me. Most of them have diamond engagement rings, some bigger than others. And they usually show them off on social media and when we meet up and make fun of me.

And it's not just my generation who find my ideas odd - my daughter makes fun of me too.

She dreams of having a showy engagement ring. I try to understand her because I know it is part of the cultural context in which she was born, but I don't agree at all with that mentality.

In fact, the whole ritual of proposing marriage bothers me. The pantomime of a man kneeling down and asking for a woman's hand seems absurd to me. It puts her in a passive role, and asking her in a very public way - such as live on stage or in front of cameras - makes her even more vulnerable. It really is an eccentric act.

Marrying someone is not just a romantic gesture - it is a mutual agreement. It has economic and legal implications.

What is BBC 100 Women?

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year. We create documentaries, features and interviews about their lives, giving more space for stories that put women at the centre.

One of our projects this year is the Freedom Trash Can.

In 1968 feminist protestors encouraged women to throw their "items of oppression" in the bin, so we'll be asking our audiences what they would throw away as women today.

If my ex-husbands had proposed I would have started laughing. But it never happened because it was more of a conversation - it was a mutual decision in both cases.

Although women can of course take the lead and propose marriage themselves, it still rarely happens that way.

Image copyright Matilde Suescún Image caption Matilde was born in Colombia, where she says the culture is different

I am concerned that society and the media seems to educate girls to dream, from when they are young, about the man who, to quote Beyonce, will "Put a ring on it". And those girls then grow up with this idea that married life will then solve all their problems.

Instead of just aspiring to marriage and a ring, I think girls should aspire to be independent, to study and develop, to seek happiness for themselves.

When I wrote something similar in my blog for El Tiempo, a newspaper in my native Colombia, readers called me a radical feminist and accused me of killing romance. But that is not true - I am a very romantic person. What I don't find romantic at all is waiting for a "brave prince" to come into my life with a ring.

What I actually do find romantic is the idea that if I do get married at my age, it's simply a reflection of a profound commitment of loyalty and love to the other person.

As told to Lucía Blasco, BBC News Mundo

See who is on our 2018 BBC 100 Women list.

Follow BBC 100 Women on Instagram and Facebook and join the conversation.

Read more:-------------------Fighting South Korea's spy cam porn 'epidemic'






Video

Hidden cameras capture women undressing, going to the toilet, or even in changing rooms in South Korea. It's then uploaded to the internet without their knowledge.

Soo-yuen Park has dedicated her life to helping women who have been victims of spy cam porn.

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year and shares their stories. Find us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and use #100Women.-------------------The safehouse for women and pets to flee abuse






Video

Shari delayed leaving a violent domestic situation because she was worried about her dogs. Almost half of domestic violence survivors with pets wait to leave because they're concerned about their animal's welfare.

But often, when they do leave, it's impossible to find a refuge that will also accommodate pets.

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year and shares their stories. Find us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and use #100Women.-------------------Growing up Afghan: 'My parents were told to swap me for a boy'






Image copyright Nargis Taraki Image caption Nargis now campaigns for women's education in her home country

When Nargis Taraki became the fifth girl born to her parents in Afghanistan, her parents were told they should swap her with another baby in the village.

Now 21, she has made it her life ambition to prove they were right to keep her.

Nargis now campaigns for women's education and empowerment in her home country, and is one of the BBC's 2018 100 Women.

In 1997 I opened my eyes to the world as my parents' fifth child, and their fifth girl.

My father's sister, and other relatives, immediately put pressure on my mum to agree to my father taking a second wife. Taking a second or even third wife is not uncommon in Afghanistan, and is sometimes done because they believe a new wife could mean a new chance to have a male child.

When she refused, they suggested that my father swap me for a boy. They even found a family in the village who was willing to give their boy away and take me.

Swapping children is not something that is part of our culture, and I haven't heard of it happening before, but boys are more valued in Afghan society as the traditional family breadwinners.

Image copyright Nargis Taraki Image caption Nargis credits her father's support for her ability to get an education

People deliberately said things to upset my mother and make her feel inferior for not having a son. Despite her refusal to part ways with me, some elders still kept approaching my father. But he had a completely different mentality. He told them he loved me, and he would one day prove to them that a daughter can achieve everything a son can.

It was not an easy time for my father. He had a military background and a history of service in the previous Soviet-backed regime, and my native district at the time was controlled by people with religious or fundamentalist tendencies.

So certain people in the village used to detest him and did not socialise with us.

But my father believed in what he said, and he always stood by his word. Although there was pressure on my parents to swap me because I was a girl, it was a man who had the most positive impact on my character.

Fleeing home

Things got worse for us after Taliban militants took control of our district. In 1998 my father had to flee to Pakistan and soon after that we joined him there.

Life there was not easy - but he managed to get work as a manager in a shoe factory. Perhaps the best thing to happen to my parents whilst in Pakistan was that they finally had a son, followed by my fifth sister.

Image copyright Nargis Taraki Image caption Nargis (left) with one of her sisters and younger brother

In 2001, we all returned to Kabul after the Taliban regime was toppled. We didn't have a house of our own and had to live with my uncles. My sisters and I managed to keep going to school despite conservatism in our culture.

I went on to study public policy and administration at Kabul University and graduated two years ago with the highest marks for that year. Throughout that time my father never stopped supporting me.

A couple of years ago I went to watch a cricket game in Kabul with my sister. There weren't many women in the stadium and our photographs and videos were circulated on social media. People started criticising us and leaving negative comments, saying we were shameless to be in a stadium amongst men. Others said we were trying to spread adultery and were being paid by the Americans.

When my father saw some of the comments on Facebook, he looked at me and said: "My dear. You have done the right thing. I am glad you have annoyed some of these idiots. Life is short. Enjoy it as much as you can."

My father died of cancer earlier this year. In him, I lost someone whose constant support made me into the person that I am today, and I know he will always be with me.

Image copyright Promote-WIE Image caption Nargis presenting a talk at a Forward Together Afghanistan event

Three years ago I tried to open a school for girls in my native village in Ghazni. I talked to my father about it and he said it would be almost impossible because of cultural boundaries, and even boys have difficulties because of the security situation. My father thought giving it a name of a religious madrassa might have improved our chances.

In the end I was unable to travel to my native village because it was simply too dangerous. One of my sisters and I still hope to achieve this goal one day.

In the meantime, I volunteered for several years for NGOs in that part of the world, working for women's education, health and empowerment.

I've also presented talks on a girl's right to go to school, university and to get a job.

I've always dreamed of studying at the University of Oxford one day. When I look at international university rankings I always find Oxford in first or second position, and when I compare that with Kabul University I feel a bit sad - although that's not to say I'm not thankful I was able to go.

Image copyright Promote-WIE Image caption Nargis has given talks on the importance of education

I love to read in my spare time - an average of two to three books a week - and Paolo Coelho is my favourite author.

'No compromise'

In terms of marriage, I would like to choose someone myself and my family have given me permission to marry someone of my own choice.

It would be great if I can find someone who has the same qualities as my father. I would want to spend the rest of my life with someone who has a similar attitude - who can support me and stand by my choices.

Family is also important - sometimes you marry the best man out there but then you cannot adapt to his family.

They will have to support me in what I want to do in my life. If they resist then I will try and change their minds. I believe in what I want to achieve in life and will not compromise.

What is 100 Women?

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year and shares their stories.

It's been a momentous year for women's rights around the globe, so in 2018 BBC 100 Women is reflecting the trailblazing women who are using passion, indignation and anger to spark real change in the world around them.

Read more:-------------------The groundbreaking female superbiker travelling the world






Video

Maral Yazarloo-Pattrick, a record-breaking superbiker, has travelled solo around the world to change attitudes towards women in Iran.

Women there are banned from motorbike riding due to modesty laws, but she recently became the first Iranian woman to openly enter the country on a motorbike without being arrested.

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year and shares their stories. Find us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and use #100Women.

Producer: Assefeh Barrat-------------------Indonesia tsunami: 'It’s an absolute miracle' my child survived






When a powerful earthquake and tsunami hit the Indonesian island of Sulawesi, hundreds of children were separated from their parents. More than 2,000 people died, with large areas being declared mass graves. But in recent weeks there have also been some extraordinary reunions.

Fikri and Jumadil go missing

Image copyright ADEK BERRY Image caption "What happened that day, my little one?"

Martha Salilama had left the stove on.

When the earth shook with incredible power, she grabbed seven year old Fikri, her great nephew, and rushed out of the house.

They had been cooking together, packets of yellow rice with fried chicken to sell at a beach festival to mark Palu city's anniversary.

"With things crumbling and falling around them, they ran out into the open. They were terrified that they would get trapped inside," says her sister Selfi Salilama, Fikri's grandmother.

When the earth stopped shaking, Marta left Fikri with some neighbours who had gathered around a horse statue that sits on the Palu bay.

She then went home to turn off the stove.

"When she came back Fikri was gone," says Selfi.

What she found was a scene of horror, a trail of destruction left by gigantic waves that had pounded the bay.

Image copyright SOPA Images Image caption The earthquake and tsunami destroyed the city of Palu

When the quake hit five year old Jumadil was on the beach building sandcastles.

His grandmother, Ajarni, who was looking after him that day, was selling food to festival goers on the street above the beach.

He had been clingy that day, she remembers.

"He wanted to be carried all the time, so I carried him around on my hip. He finally got bored and asked to be put down and went off and played in the sand," she says.

When the first quake struck she tried frantically to reach him but failed.

It was chaotic, she says, with people running in all directions as the earth threw them around.

"When I got closer to the shore I saw a wall of black water heading towards me."

Image caption "I ran as fast as I could, I had no idea where I was running"

With the monstrous waves about to pound the bay, she could look no more and ran.

"I ran as fast as I could, I had no idea where I was running. When the water swept me away I clung on to a motorbike."

The waves finally dumped her in the parking lot of a hotel.

She had survived. But Jumadil was gone.

Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded video. Video by BNPB spokesperson Sutopo Purwo Nugroho.

That's where her husband, Daeng, the boy's grandfather, found her.

"I didn't recognise her at first, because she was covered in mud and blood and was crying. I turned to someone I knew and said I am looking for my wife and they said - that's her!"

"Her hair was caked with mud and blood, it was like instant noodles. I picked her up and cried out for help."

A passing motorbike rider took them to the nearest hospital.

"I was worried she would lose too much blood. There were lots of aftershocks, it was terrifying," he remembers.

Image caption Susi Rahmatia thought her son had drowned in the huge waves

The desperate search

News reached Jumadil's mum, Susi Rahmatia, at home.

"My uncle rushed in and said 'there are children's corpses everywhere near the shore'. I collapsed and cried, I thought for sure my son had been killed by the waves."

"That night my husband went searching for him. When he came across a body of a child he broke down and cried."

In the morning the grandfather, Asmudin, joined the search.

"The air around the beach was filled with the smell of corpses. I searched and searched for hours barefoot. I looked under the rubble and in places I thought he might have been washed up," he says.

Image copyright SOPA Images Image caption Children's toys were scattered in the rubble of houses

Satellite image ©2018 DigitalGlobe, a Maxar company. Satelite image showing liquefaction in Balaroa. Satellite image ©2018 DigitalGlobe, a Maxar company. Satelite image showing liquefaction in Balaroa. Satellite image ©2018 DigitalGlobe, a Maxar company.

Seven year old Fikri's family were also desperately searching for him.

His grandmother, Selfi Salilama, says they feared he, too, was dead.

"At the hospital we opened body bag after body bag that had a child in it," she says.

"Each time a wave of fear washed over us. And we would say 'Allah make us strong enough to do this' - each time hoping it wasn't Fikri."

"We were almost certain that we had lost him. We knew his 10-year-old brother had died. But in my heart I had a little hope that perhaps Fikri had run away in time."

Image caption Selfi Salilam feared both her grandsons were dead

Fikri's parents find out

Fikri's parents live and work 600km away in Gorontalo.

With telecommunications down Selfi says she couldn't contact them. She was also a little scared to tell them.

"I didn't want everyone to panic and worry. We wanted to search first and give them news with some certainty," she says.

But given the scale of the disaster keeping it a secret was impossible.

"We saw it all on television. I was just speechless. My husband Iqbal left straight away for Palu. I stayed here to look after my younger children," Susila says.

When Iqbal As Sywie arrived to hear both his sons were missing, he was devastated.

"He was angry and very upset and was saying to us 'why didn't you take better care of my sons?' I had to calm him down telling him this was out of our hands. That if Allah wanted to take them we had to accept that."

Image copyright Ulet Ifansasti Image caption Photographs of missing people were displayed on the walls in days after the disaster

They reported Fikri missing at child protection posts set up across the city.

They also did interviews with local television stations giving them details about the boy who was missing.

The break through

Jumadil's uncle posted a notice on a Facebook page for survivors in the city, hoping the picture of his nephew would jog someone's memory.

Sartini's daughter saw the picture and thought it bore a striking resemblance to the child her mother was looking after.

Image copyright AFP Image caption The social media post that help find Jumadil

The wife of a local imam, Sartini, had met the boy at a police station in the aftermath of the quake.

She remembers that he was wailing uncontrollably, just repeating cries of "mummy" and "daddy".

"I only persuaded him by saying 'your mother is still buying milk for you'," she told AFP at the time. She befriended him and took care of him.

"What they saw on Facebook were old photos of Jumadil - so at first they weren't sure if it was really him," says his mother Susi.

"But when they read the details in the post about what he was wearing that day - a red striped shirt and that his pants were held up with a string because they were too big, that's when they knew it was the same boy."

A matching birthmark on the neck confirmed it was indeed Jumadil, setting the stage for a reunion.

"I couldn't sleep, I thought about him all night, wondering who saved my little boy," says Susi.

A reunion

Jumadil leaps off a motorbike into his mother's arms. Their emotional reunion after five long days is captured on film.

He clings to her while she smothers him in kisses, tears stream down both their faces. Jumadil crying so hard he is gasping for breath.

"He hugged me so tight like he never wanted to let go, his legs wrapped around me like a monkey," remembers Susi.

"We didn't speak. He was very scared. There were lots of people crowding around us. I just tried to show him that now everything was going to be alright."

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hundreds of children were separated from their parents in Palu

She waited days before finally asking him what happened.

I asked him gently 'What happened that day, my little one? And he said 'I was playing in the sand and didn't understand why the whole world was shaking."

"So who picked you up, I asked? He said a police officer. We did try and find out who that was, but haven't been able to."

They believe he dodged the tsunami by a matter of minutes.

Image copyright ADEK BERRY Image caption Jumadil reunited with his grandfather

Fikri is found

More days passed by and Fikri's family were close to giving up hope - when a social worker arrived at their door.

"They had a photo and they said - Mrs, is this your grandson? And it was him! We started telling everyone, 'they have Fikri. They have found Fikri!' We all gathered around and just cried and cried."

"They told us that he was alive and living in North Morowali - we had no idea how he had gone there."

He had ended up 500km away.

Image copyright UNICEF Image caption Fikri, shown here hugging his dad, had been washed up on the side of a road

It was not until they had Fikri in their arms, three weeks after he went missing, that the family understood how he had ended up there.

Twenty-year-old university student Kadek Ayu Dwi Mariati says she found Fikri on the side of the road.

He was injured, she remembers, and was crying out for his mother and father. He was only a wearing a t-shirt.

"To tell you the truth my first concern was saving my own life, I was in such a panic and was very scared," she said.

"But then I thought if I don't save this boy who will? I stopped and asked him where are your parents? He said they were gone and his house was destroyed, so I told him to come with me to higher ground."

When her parents reached Palu, a few days later, Fikri didn't want to leave her side.

"He didn't want to stay, he wanted to be with me. So he came home with us to our village," she says.

"I reported this to the police and social workers and told them if someone is looking for this child then he is with me. They told me, 'don't give him away to anyone' because there were fears of child trafficking at the time."

As the weeks past with no news her family built up a close bond with Fikri.

"He was a really good kid. Wasn't any trouble at all. I do really miss him now and was a little sad to see him go but at the same time I am so grateful, that it turns out, he had a family still alive to go home to," she says.

The miracle

Their reunion was also captured on film. His family was told by social workers to wait in a tent - no one speaks and they look at their hands nervously.

Then he was brought in. "Praise God," they cried as they hugged Fikri and held him tenderly.

Fikri was beaming, wearing a neat checked shirt and jeans.

"We cried and hugged and hugged him," Selfi recalled.

"I was so happy but also sad. I was filled with joy that Allah had given us more time with him but also sad that it was someone else that saved him. We could only cry and give thanks to Allah."

Image copyright UNICEF Image caption Fikri now lives with his parents

The trauma

Fikri's parents have taken him back to live with them in Gorontalo. Schools are not back to normal in Palu and they want him close.

"He doesn't want to be left alone, even for a second, he said to us 'if you leave me and the earth shakes again where am I meant to go?," his mum Susila says over the phone.

"We have to wait for him outside the classroom. We don't talk about what happened. He just cries if it comes up. His older brother never came back."

His grandmother video calls with him often. "Show me your smile," she cries down the phone at him.

"Ah there you are! There is the most handsome boy in Gorontolo," she teases him.

Image caption Fikri's grandmother stays in touch with her grandson through video chats

Back to the beach

Jumadil too is still traumatised but each afternoon he has to go back to the same beach, to help his mother sell peanuts.

"He still has flashbacks, if the lights go off he jumps up and runs into my arms asking 'why are the lights off, Mum?' When the earthquake hit all the lights went off and it was black."

While we are talking at their stall another mother comes up and says her son was missing for four days.

He was caught up in the waves too, she says. Now it's a nightmare to get him to have a bath. He is terrified of water.

Image caption Jumadil's mother's peanut stall

While his mum serves the customer, Jumadil's grandfather, Daeng, takes him for a walk through the rubble.

He still can't quite believe his grandson has come back.

"It's hard for an everyday guy like me to get my head around it," he says.

Image caption "It's an absolute miracle he has come back"

"If you think about it logically it's amazing he was saved, given the power of the waves that destroyed everything. Buildings crumbled so humans shouldn't really have stood a chance. Lots of police officers died. I really want to know who saved our boy."

"It's an absolute miracle he has come back."

All pictures copyright.-------------------The women killed on one day around the world






An average of 137 women across the world are killed by a partner or family member every day, according to new data released by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC).

They say it makes "the home the most likely place for a woman to be killed".

More than half of the 87,000 women killed in 2017 were reported as dying at the hands of those closest to them.

Of that figure, approximately 30,000 women were killed by an intimate partner and another 20,000 by a relative.

BBC 100 Women wanted to find out more about the women behind the numbers. We spent October monitoring reports of gender-related killings of women on the first day of that month. We will share some of their stories below and find out more about how these killings were reported.

Male homicide rates still higher

The data collected by UNODC highlights that "men are around four times more likely than women to lose their lives as a result of intentional homicide".

The UN indicates that men accounted for eight out of 10 homicide victims worldwide.

However, the same report suggests that more than eight out of 10 victims of homicides committed by intimate partners are female.

"Intimate partner violence continues to take a disproportionately heavy toll on women," the report states.

Forty-seven women, 21 countries, one day

The UN statistics summarise the findings for 2017 based on homicide statistics provided by government sources. The figures for "gender-related killings of women and girls", or "femicide", are collated using the criteria of intimate partner/family-related homicide.

BBC 100 Women and BBC Monitoring set out to find out more about the women behind the numbers.

We monitored press coverage of women killed by another person on 1 October 2018 around the world. Our regional specialists counted 47 women reported killed, apparently for gender-related reasons, in 21 different countries. Most of these killings are still being investigated.

Women whose killings were reported by the media on 1 October 2018 Neha Sharad Chaudhary, age 18, was killed in Malegaon, India An unnamed woman, age 31, was killed in Mashhad, Iran Linda Miller, age 66, was killed in Indianapolis, United States An unnamed girl, age 17, was killed in Alipur, India Judith Chesang, age 22, was killed in Baringo, Kenya Farzana Bibi, age 22, was killed in Pakpattan, Pakistan Dina Mapelli, age 77, was killed in Vimercate, Italy Sandra Lucia Hammer Moura, age 39, was killed in Palmas, Brazil Jennifer Majín Males, age 24, was killed in Los Cámbulos, Colombia An unnamed woman, age 82, was killed in Dracsani, Romania Yanet Nuñez Niclouse, age 46, was killed in Rio Claro, Chile Ritu Devi, age unknown, was killed in Neeli, India An unnamed woman, age 30, was killed in Amsterdam, Netherlands An unnamed girl, age five, was killed in Amsterdam, Netherlands An unnamed woman, age 67, was killed in Amsterdam, Netherlands Katty Mayorly Jácome Hernández, age 34, was killed in Cúcuta, Colombia Niah, age unknown, was killed in Dumai, Indonesia Marie-Amelie Vaillat, age 36, was killed in Oyonnax, France An unnamed woman, age 85, was killed in Kawasaki, Japan Vanessa Vicente da Silva, age 27, was killed in Serra Talhada, Brazil Resti Nova Dila, age 20, was killed in South Solok, Indonesia T. Zh, age unknown, was killed in Asaka district, Uzbekistan Justina Coelho Lopes, age 69, was killed in Bauru, Brazil Griselda Iria Osorio Álvarez, age 21, was killed in Tijuana, Mexico Edineuza Costa Silva was killed in Quixeramobim, Brazil Paula Andrea Alvarez Morales, age 35, was killed in Ciudad Bolivar, Colombia An unnamed girl was killed in Tandlianwala, Pakistan Maria Gladis Herrera de Damian, age 55, was killed in San Pedro Puxtla, El Salvador Tábata Amscoli de Paz López, age 18, was killed in Guatemala City, Guatemala Barbie Pigg, age 49, was killed in Middlesbrough, UK Leoncia Tupas, age 67, was killed in Quezon City, Philippines Vilma Josefina Contreras, age 55, was killed in Huiziltepeque, El Salvador An unnamed woman was killed in Belem, Brazil An unnamed woman, age 39, was killed in Campeche, Mexico Emily Punzalan Bucay, age 27, was killed in Quezon City, Philippines An unnamed woman was killed in Tapachula, Mexico Gabriela da Rosa Silva, age 18, was killed in Porto Alegre, Brazil An unnamed woman was killed in Lahore, Pakistan Zeinab Sekaanvand, age 24, was killed in Urumieh, Iran Unmar Sanam, age 50, was killed in Birmingham, UK Rute Maria da Conceicao, age 36, was killed in Olinda, Brazil Avan Najmadeen, age 32, was killed in Stoke-on-Trent, UK Karen Groves, age 58, was killed in Indianapolis, United States Damaris Yoselin "N", age 18, was killed in Acapulco, Mexico Milaine Ferreira de Oliveira, age 19, was killed in Minas Gerais, Brazil An unnamed woman, age 61, was killed in Vanj district, Tajikistan Supinah, age 48, was killed in Sekadau Hilir, Indonesia

Here are five of these cases, reported initially by local media and then verified by local authorities the BBC contacted.

Image copyright Family handout

Judith Chesang, 22, Kenya

On Monday 1 October, Judith Chesang and her sister Nancy were out in the fields harvesting their sorghum crop.

Judith, a mother of three, had recently separated from her husband, Laban Kamuren, and had decided to return to her parents' village in the north of the country.

Soon after the sisters began their duties, he arrived at the family farm where he attacked and killed Judith.

Local police say he has since been killed by villagers.

Africa was where women ran the greatest risk of being killed by their intimate partner or family member, the UN report says. It occurred at a rate of 3.1 deaths per 100,000 people.

Asia had the greatest number of women killed by intimate partners or family members in 2017, with a total of 20,000.

Image copyright Manohar Shewale

Neha Sharad Chaudury, 18, India

Neha Sharad Chaudury died in a suspected "honour" killing on her 18th birthday. She had been out celebrating with her boyfriend. Police confirmed to the BBC that her parents did not approve of the relationship.

Her parents and another male relative are accused of killing her in their home that evening.

The investigation continues and the three remain in judicial custody awaiting trial.

The BBC has learned from the lawyer representing Neha's parents and her male relative that they intend to deny the charges.

Hundreds of people are killed each year for falling in love or marrying against their families' wishes. Official data on so-called honour killings is hard to come by as such crimes are often unrecorded or unreported.

Image copyright Private via Amnesty International

Zeinab Sekaanvan, 24, Iran

Zeinab Sekaanvan was executed by the Iranian authorities for murdering her husband.

Zeinab was born in the north-west of Iran into a poor conservative family of Kurdish origin. She ran away as a teenager to marry in the hope of finding a better life.

Amnesty International says her husband was abusive and had refused to grant her a divorce, and that her complaints were ignored by police.

She was arrested for the killing of her husband at the age of 17.

Her supporters, including Amnesty, say she was tortured to confess to the killing of her husband, beaten by police and did not receive a fair trial.

The UNODC report suggests women who kill intimate partners have often experienced "extended periods of suffering physical violence".

Meanwhile, the motivations typically expressed by male perpetrators include "possessiveness, jealousy and fear of abandonment", the report says. This appears to be the case with another long-term couple who were found dead in Brazil on the same day that Zeinab was executed.

Image copyright Reproduction / Facebook

Sandra Lucia Hammer Moura, 39, Brazil

Sandra Lucia Hammer Moura married Augusto Aguiar Ribeiro at the age of 16.

The couple had been separated for five months when she was killed by him.

Police in Jardim Taquari confirmed to BBC Brasil that she was stabbed in the neck.

They found a video of her husband confessing to the crime on his mobile phone. In it, he said that Sandra was already dating another man and he felt betrayed.

He also said in the video that he would not be arrested as the couple would go to the "glory of the Lord" together. He then hanged himself in what had been their bedroom.

Sandra's case highlights a form of killing known as a "murder-suicide" - when an individual kills one or more people before killing themselves.

BBC Monitoring found 14 cases of women killed on 1 October this year in Latin America. Two were in El Salvador.

Authorities in El Salvador have told the BBC that at least 300 women have been killed so far in 2018. Karla Turcios is one of them. Watch her story here.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Is El Salvador the worst country to be a woman?

Image copyright PHOTOPQR/LE PROGRES/Photo Jean-Pierre BALFIN

Marie-Amélie Vaillat, 36, France

Marie-Amélie was stabbed to death by her husband, Sébastien Vaillat.

The couple had separated after four years of marriage.

He attacked her with a knife before confessing to the police. A few days later, he killed himself in prison.

Outside the door of Marie-Amélie Vaillat's lingerie shop on Rue Bichat, residents left a sea of flowers and organised a march in her memory.

The killing of Marie-Amélie came on the same day that the French government announced new plans to tackle domestic abuse.

Image copyright PHOTOPQR/LE PROGRES/Photo Jean-Pierre BALFIN Image caption A march in memory of Marie-Amélie Vaillat

What does it take for a woman's killing to be reported?

To collect these stories, BBC Monitoring's international network of journalists and researchers analysed TV, radio, print, online and social media around the world, looking for reports of women killed, apparently for gender-related reasons, on 1 October 2018.

They found a total of 47 reports of women killed on that one day around the world. We have shared just some of those cases. There are many more where the motives were unclear, or the perpetrators unidentified.

The new UNODC report suggests that a large share of violence against women is "widely underreported to authorities and that a large share of such violence is hidden".

Rebecca Skippage, who led the project for BBC Monitoring, found that behind the numbers, "the way in which the media reported their lives and deaths revealed a huge amount about how women are viewed by different societies around the world".

She explains: "We were looking for deaths within one day, but we searched for that day's stories for a month. We found that the time-lag in reporting, the tone of the coverage or the scarcity of information often told a wider tale about the status of women in that region."

Maryam Azwer works for BBC Monitoring and drew much of the final data together.

"This is as much about the deaths that aren't reported, as those that are," she says.

"Those whose stories never reached the media, that went unreported, were unverified, or were not or could not be investigated. It makes you wonder: what does it take to make a woman's killing important enough to be reported?"

Find out more about how BBC Monitoring carried out the research.

Help and advice

If you, or someone you know, have been affected by domestic abuse or violence, these organisations in the UK may be able to help.

Outside the UK, there are other organisations which provide advice and protection for people at risk of violence or abuse. If you feel in danger, try to find out which local organisations can best advise and help you.

All photographs subject to copyright

Reporter: Krupa Padhy

Producer: Georgina Pearce

Research: BBC Monitoring

Data journalism: Christine Jeavans and Clara Guibourg. Design: Zoe Bartholomew. Development: Alexander Ivanov

What is 100 Women?

BBC 100 Women names 100 influential and inspirational women around the world every year and shares their stories.

It's been a momentous year for women's rights around the globe, so in 2018 BBC 100 Women will reflect the trailblazing women who are using passion, indignation and anger to spark real change in the world around them.

Find us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and use #100Women-------------------Revealed: the stark evidence of everyday racial bias in Britain






The extent of racial bias faced by black, Asian and minority ethnic citizens in 21st-century Britain has been laid bare in an unprecedented study showing a gulf in how people of different ethnicities are treated in their daily lives.

A survey for the Guardian of 1,000 people from minority ethnic backgrounds found they were consistently more likely to have faced negative everyday experiences – all frequently associated with racism – than white people in a comparison poll.

Bias in Britain: explore the poll results Read more

The survey found that 43% of those from a minority ethnic background had been overlooked for a work promotion in a way that felt unfair in the last five years – more than twice the proportion of white people (18%) who reported the same experience.

The results show that ethnic minorities are three times as likely to have been thrown out of or denied entrance to a restaurant, bar or club in the last five years, and that more than two-thirds believe Britain has a problem with racism.

The ICM poll, commissioned to launch a week-long investigation into bias in Britain, focuses on everyday experiences of prejudice that could be a result of unconscious bias – quick decisions conditioned by our backgrounds, cultural environment and personal experiences.

It is believed to be the first major piece of UK public polling to focus on ethnic minorities’ experiences of unconscious bias, and comes amid wider concerns about a shortage of research capturing the views of minority groups.

Q&A What is unconscious bias, and why is the Guardian reporting on it? Show Hide Unconscious or implicit bias is one part of the explanation for why, despite equalities being enshrined in law, minority groups are still at a disadvantage in many parts of life. The term was popularised after US social psychologists devised a way of measuring the prejudices that we are not necessarily aware of – the Implicit Association Test. They published a paper in 1998 claiming that their tool for measuring "the unconscious roots of prejudice" showed that 90-95% of people were susceptible. While the reliability of that test is now contested, there is overwhelming wider evidence that unconscious bias seeps into decisions that affect recruitment, access to healthcare and outcomes in criminal justice in ways that can disadvantage black and minority ethnic people. One study found that university professors were far more likely to respond to emails from students with white-sounding names. Another showed that white people perceived black faces as more threatening than white faces with the same expression. In this series, Bias in Britain, we're exploring some of the ways unconscious bias plays out in the real world. For example, we conducted a poll which found that ethnic minorities are much more likely to report being suspected of shoplifting, refused entry to bars and clubs or being unfairly overlooked for promotion at work. While some of our biases may begin on an unconscious level, experts caution that the concept of unconscious bias should not absolve people of discriminatory behaviour. “If you’re aware of these associations then you can bring to bear all of your critical skills and intelligence to see it’s wrong to think like that,” says Lasana Harris, a neuroscientist who studies prejudice and social learning at University College London. “We all have the ability to control that.”

The poll found comprehensive evidence to support concerns that unconscious bias has a negative effect on the lives of Britain’s 8.5 million people from minority backgrounds that is not revealed by typical data on racism. For example:

• 38% of people from ethnic minorities said they had been wrongly suspected of shoplifting in the last five years, compared with 14% of white people, with black people and women in particular more likely to be wrongly suspected.

• Minorities were more than twice as likely to have encountered abuse or rudeness from a stranger in the last week.

• 53% of people from a minority background believed they had been treated differently because of their hair, clothes or appearance, compared with 29% of white people.

The Runnymede Trust, a racial equality thinktank, described the findings as “stark” and said they illustrated “everyday micro-aggressions” that had profound effects on Britain’s social structure.

“Racism and discrimination for BAME people and minority faith groups isn’t restricted to one area of life,” said Zubaida Haque, the trust’s deputy director. “If you’re not welcome in a restaurant as a guest because of the colour of your skin, you’re unlikely to get a job in the restaurant for the same reason. Structural and institutional racism is difficult to identify or prove, but it has much more far-reaching effects on people’s life chances.”

David Lammy, the Labour MP for Tottenham, said the findings were upsetting. “Racial prejudice continues to weigh on the lives of black and ethnic minority people in the UK. While we all share the same hard-won rights, our lived experience and opportunity can vary,” he said.

Recalling being stopped and searched when he was 12, Lammy said: “Stereotyping is not just something that happens, stereotyping is something that is felt, and it feels like sheer terror, confusion and shame.”

Unconscious bias: what is it and can it be eliminated? Read more

Half of the respondents from a minority background said they believed people sometimes did not realise they were treating them differently because of their ethnicity, suggesting unconscious bias, as well as more explicit and deliberate racism, has a major influence on the way millions of people who were born in the UK or moved here are treated.

As well as demonstrating how much more likely ethnic minorities are to report negative experiences that did not feature an explicitly racist element, the poll found that one in eight had heard racist language directed at them in the month before they were surveyed.

It also found troubling levels of concern about bias in the workplace, with 57% of minorities saying they felt they had to work harder to succeed in Britain because of their ethnicity, and 40% saying they earned less or had worse employment prospects for the same reason.

The poll persistently found evidence that the gap in negative experiences was not confined to the past. For example, one in seven people from ethnic minorities said they had been treated as a potential shoplifter in the last month, against one in 25 white people.

Quick guide About the poll Show Hide In ICM’s poll, 1,000 black, Asian and minority ethnic people were asked about experiences that are typically associated with unconscious bias, such as being asked to leave a restaurant for no good reason or being passed over for promotion at work. Their answers were weighted by ethnic group, age, gender and region to match the profile of ethnic minorities in the general population. These results were compared with those of a sample of white respondents. We also asked our minority respondents some other questions about their experiences. We view the findings as important because the sample of 1,000 people from minority ethnic groups is much larger than the number of such respondents included in a nationally representative poll, and is therefore much more robust. With minorities accounting for 13% of the population, only about 130 participants in a nationally representative poll of the same size would be from a minority background. Because of the size of the sample, we are able to draw more reliable conclusions about the differences between the experiences of different ethnic groups, as well as learning about how the effects differ across other categories like age and gender. We are not aware of any public polling asking minority respondents about unconscious bias on a similar scale in recent years, and research capturing the views of minorities on any topic is a rarity. After recent elections in the UK and the US and the Brexit vote, there is understandable scepticism about the validity of polling. But at its best, polling remains a hugely useful tool, providing powerful insights into broad phenomena that cannot be replicated by other means. In this case, the results are not prone to such complicating factors as successful campaigning or turnout numbers. Rather than asking our respondents about the changeable matter of their opinions and their predictions of their own behaviour, we have focused primarily on their experiences and perceptions. In that context, we believe this poll stands as a vital prompt for public debate.

The findings come a year after Theresa May published a race disparity audit that identified differences in living standards, housing, work, policing and health. The prime minister pledged to “confront these issues we have identified” but admitted: “We still have a way to go if we’re truly going to have a country that does work for everyone.”

In October the government said employers could be forced to reveal salary figures broken down by ethnicity, as they already do for gender, in a move that lawyers predicted could lead to a flood of employment tribunal cases. Black, Asian and minority ethnic unemployment stands at 6.3%, compared with 3.6% for white people.

Bangladeshi and Pakistani households had an average income of nearly £9,000 a year less than white British households between 2014 and 2016, and the gap between white and black Caribbean and black British families was £5,500.

One of the few positive findings was that just over half of those surveyed said they had either never experienced someone directing racist language at them, or had not done so for at least five years.

This is a vital study of racial bias. Now will Britain take heed? | Afua Hirsch Read more

However, the results raise concerns over efforts to forge a multicultural British identity, with 41% saying someone had assumed they were not British at some point in the last year because of their ethnicity.

People from minorities are twice as likely as white people to have been mistaken for staff in a restaurant, bar or shop. One in five said they had felt the need to alter their voice and appearance in the last year because of their ethnicity.

The effects of bias are not the same for all ethnicities. Half of black and mixed-race people felt they had been unfairly overlooked for a promotion or job application, compared with 41% of people from Asian backgrounds. Black people were more likely to feel they had to work harder to succeed because of their ethnicity.

Muslims living in Britain – a large minority at around 2.8 million people – are more likely to have negative experiences than other religious groups. They are more likely than Christians, people with no religion and other smaller religions to be stopped by the police, left out of social functions at work or college and find that people seem not to want to sit next to them on public transport.

A government spokesperson said the prime minister was determined that people of different ethnicities were treated equally. The spokesperson said: “One year on from [the race disparity audit’s] launch, we are delivering on our commitment to explain or change ethnic disparities in all areas of society including a £90m programme to help tackle youth unemployment and a Race at Work charter to help create greater opportunities for ethnic minority employees at work. We have also launched a consultation on mandatory ethnicity pay reporting.”-------------------This is a vital study of racial bias. Now will Britain take heed? | Afua Hirsch






What does racial prejudice mean in Britain today? Is it, as one woman told me as I toured the UK to talk about my book Brit(ish), something we no longer fight against, distracted by other, seemingly modern ideas? “Diversity,” she told me, “has killed anti-racism.”

Is it, as the academic Paul Gilroy has said, a drama with which we have on some profound level become obsessed and dependent upon? “The nation’s intermittent racial tragedies,” he wrote in an updated edition of his seminal book Ain’t No Black in the Union Jack, “punctuate the chronic boredom of national decline with a functional anguish.”

London clubs and racism: ‘The West End is a hostile environment’ Read more

Has it evolved into something hidden by the politeness of well-meaning British behaviour? What I call “the question”, for example: the constant singling out of people of colour in order to ask: “Where are you from?” And to keep on asking, until information about some supposedly exotic country of origin is delivered. The kindly claim by a friend that you are fine, because “we don’t really see you as black”, or the patient explanation delivered by a colleague: “I’m not being racist, you just can’t get a job around here any more if you’re white.” Even the “hostile environment” immigration policy that leaves you helpless as black British people you love are deported to a country they don’t know doesn’t actually say racism on the sticker.

There is still plenty that does say racism on the sticker, of course. In my book, I recall going into a high-end shop on my local high street, for example, only to be told I wasn’t welcome because “the black girls steal”. And the moment I realised my partner refused point-blank to enter shops of that nature in the first place, exhausted by the inevitable suspicion and hostility.

The launch on Sunday of the Guardian’s Bias in Britain reporting reveals, in many cases for the first time, these experiences as more than just anecdote.

I now know for example, that, from a representative sample of 1,000 black and minority ethnic (BAME) people across Britain, 38% have been wrongly suspected of shoplifting in the past five years, compared with 14% of white people. I can tell you that 12% of BAME people have had racist language directed at them in the past month, rising to 43% in the past five years.

We can now look properly at the practical effects of bias on life in the workplace. Contrary to the perception that being a member of an ethnic minority is an advantage in companies seeking to prove their diversity credentials, the data reveals that 43% of BAME people feel that they been overlooked for a job or promotion in a manner that felt unfair in the past five years, more than double the proportion of white British people.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Of 1,000 BAME people across Britain ‘38% have been wrongly accused of shoplifting in the last five years, compared with 14% of white people’. Photograph: Alamy

And we can analyse some of the emotional effects of bias – sometimes conscious, often unconscious – including the daily assumption that we are not actually British. Now my experience of “the question” is laid bare in the data: within the last month alone, one in five BAME people has had someone assume they aren’t British on the basis of their ethnicity.

This research is important because, as well as these remarkable headline figures, it also examines experiences distinctive to different groups. Feeling overlooked at work affects black or mixed-race people more than those of Asian heritage. Muslims report having more negative experiences than BAME people of other religious backgrounds. Men are significantly more likely to have been stopped by the police, while women are more likely to have felt the need to alter their appearance because of their ethnicity.

Revealed: the stark evidence of everyday racial bias in Britain Read more

My hope is that knowing how widespread these experiences are might have effects that are more direct than the pollsters could have imagined. That a little black girl trying to scrub her skin lighter would know that many other girls face the same shaming pressures. That the person unsettled by being constantly mistaken for someone else at work – in my case, alleged doppelgangers include Michelle Obama and Clara Amfo, which is hardly unflattering, except that I don’t remotely resemble any of them – will know that three-quarters of black people have had the same experience.

Bias in Britain is a welcome addition to a badly neglected field of inquiry. But here are a few things it can’t do. It can’t quantify the psychological strain of feeling invisible, overlooked or treated with disdain; of feeling – in the mantra many of us know so well – like you have to do twice as much to succeed. It can’t measure the pressure of being too visible – of having to do half as much to fail. It can’t diagnose how many of our relationships crumble because a partner is too broken and angered by racism to be able to love, or how many of us lose our sense of identity under the burden of racism, allowing it to engulf and overwhelm us.

Because racism does have the power to overwhelm. I was struck by the story recently of a white theatre director who described himself as “born-again African”, in part because of the racism he had experienced as a consequence of being mistaken for somebody black. Racism, I was reminded, has come to be such an integral part of the ethnic minority experience, it is confused with the entirely separate question of who we actually are. This is nothing new – it’s the reason Marcus Garvey felt compelled to point out, almost a century ago, that blackness is not about shame but about greatness. The way to overcome this confusion is not to stop talking about racism, it’s to understand it better. And to understand it, you have to ask the right questions, and listen – really listen – to the answers.

• Afua Hirsch is a Guardian columnist-------------------Theresa May in battle over Brexit legal advice as charm offensive begins






Theresa May faces her first major battle in a crucial period for her Brexit plans, with the government at risk of being declared in contempt of parliament in a row over the publication of official legal advice on the departure deal.

The prime minister, back in London from the G20 summit in Buenos Aires, will simultaneously begin a charm offensive to win over Conservative MPs in dozens of face-to-face meetings before the Commons votes on the deal on 11 December.

On Monday afternoon the attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, is scheduled to brief the Commons about his advice on the Brexit plan before – in an unusual move for the government’s chief law officer – answering questions from MPs.

Downing Street argues strongly that this will be sufficient information for any MP to make up their mind on the legal aspects of the deal before the upcoming five-day debate, and that it keeps to the protocol that full advice is seen as confidential between lawyer and client.

But Labour, which last month won a vote on a Commons motion obliging the release of the full advice, is to join forces with other parties, including the Democratic Unionist party (DUP), to try to pressure ministers to accede to their publication demand, using the ominous, if vague, threat of a contempt of parliament motion.

The shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, said he believed ministers would be in “really deep water” if they sought to thwart the Commons.

“If they don’t produce it tomorrow then we will start contempt proceedings, and this will be a collision course between the government and parliament,” he told Sky’s Sophy Ridge show.

“I accept that it’s exceptional to have that disclosed. It has happened in the past, but it is exceptional. That’s why we had a debate in parliament – to say: is this the sort of case where it’s so exceptional that it should be disclosed?”

It is expected that Labour will see how much detail is contained in the “legal position paper” – a précis of the advice given by Cox to cabinet – published on Monday, and in the attorney general’s answers to MPs before deciding on a contempt motion.

In theory, a minister found to be in contempt of parliament could be suspended or even expelled from the Commons, though such sanctions are seen as extremely unlikely.

Any motion would be cross-party, with the DUP, May’s unofficial coalition partners, expected to join Labour’s efforts along with Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

A few Conservative MPs have called for the full advice to be published, amid reports at the weekend that Cox had told the cabinet there was a risk the backstop arrangement – the guarantee against a future hard Irish border – could stay in place “indefinitely”.

Two strongly leave-supporting Tories announced they wanted to see the the full advice. David Jones and Simon Clarke, who were both lawyers before becoming MPs, said the importance of next week’s vote made this vital.

Clarke said: “We are about to embark on the most significant debate in parliament for many decades. The functioning of the backstop and our ability to ever leave it will lie at the heart of it, and the advice the attorney general has laid before the cabinet is crucial.”

Boris Johnson used his latest Daily Telegraph column to add to the calls to publish the advice in full. The former foreign secretary said it was “outrageous that the public should be prevented from knowing the full legal implications of this appalling deal”.

A key issue for May is whether dissent spreads to more moderate MPs. One centrist Tory said: “There is good reason for advice to stay confidential. The issue here is trust. Given Brexit divisions, can this hold? Possibly not.”

Downing Street is publicly confident that the arrangement for Cox to answer questions should be enough to reassure even the most suspicious or curious MPs. “He will be there to answer any question any MP wants to put to him, so there is going to be full scrutiny. It’s important to note that we are making him available,” a No 10 source said.

On Sunday the environment secretary, Michael Gove, conceded that he shared the worry of many Tories about the UK being unable to exit the backstop without the say-so of the EU. “I would have preferred it if we had a unilateral right of exit,” Gove told BBC One’s Andrew Marr show.

But Gove argued EU leaders would oppose the idea of the UK being kept indefinitely in the arrangement, as this would “see Britain having a competitive advantage over their country”.

The government believes a unilateral exit mechanism for the backstop would be impossible to negotiate – not least because the EU would be concerned about what might then happen if May was replaced by another prime minister.

In an other Brexit wrangle, May and Jeremy Corbyn are yet to agree the format for a mooted TV debate between the pair next Sunday. The Labour leader said he was happy to hold a head-to-head encounter on the BBC, while a No 10 spokesman said Corbyn’s “confected demands” meant he was trying to obstruct the process.-------------------Paris riots: PM to meet protest groups after worst unrest in decade






The French president, Emmanuel Macron, has instructed his prime minister to hold talks with protest groups after anti-government demonstrations led to the worst violence in central Paris in a decade, with more than 100 people injured as cars and buildings were set alight.

Macron is facing his biggest crisis since taking office 18 months ago after the violence erupted on Saturday following weeks of street protests that began against fuel taxes and have turned into an anti-government movement.

The Élysée and key ministers appeared to rule out imposing any kind of state of emergency after thousands of masked protesters from the gilets jaunes – named for their fluorescent yellow jackets – fought running battles with riot police, torched cars, set fire to banks and houses and burned makeshift barricades.

A presidential source told Reuters that the meeting discussed how to adapt security forces and tactics to contain future protests.

The aftermath of the gilets jaunes riots in Paris – in pictures Read more

Macron, who had said he would “never accept violence”, instructed the prime minister, Édouard Philippe, to meet what he has called legitimate protest groups and opposition politicians this week in an effort to calm tensions and stop “professional” rioters from infiltrating street demonstrations.

The Paris prosecutor Remy Heitz said 378 people were in custody, including 33 under the age of 18. He said many of those arrested in battles with police were men aged between 30 and 40, often from regions far from Paris, who had “come to fight police while claiming to be part of the gilets jaunes movement”.

The interior minister, Christophe Castaner, and his head of staff will be questioned by a senate committee on Tuesday over how thousands of protesters were able to play cat and mouse with police through central Paris for hours.

Macron flew back from the G20 summit in Argentina on Sunday and went straight to inspect damage at the Arc de Triomphe. Graffiti all over the base of the 19-century monument read: “We’ve chopped off heads for less than this” and “Topple the Bourgeoisie.” Scores of used teargas canisters filled the gutters.

Play Video 0:36 Paris cleanup begins after gilets jaunes riots – video

Near the Champs Élysées there were splashes of paint on buildings after protesters had paint-bombed police. Used bottles of eye-drops on the ground indicated that some protesters – many of whom wore ski-masks and breathing equipment – stood their ground despite the teargas fired from rows of police behind shields.

France is deeply fractured. Gilets jaunes are just a symptom | Christophe Guilluy Read more

Along the Avenue Kléber near the Arc de Triomphe on Sunday morning, passersby peered at scorched pavements where the burnt-out carcasses of cars had been towed away, and where a private residence had been set alight. Graffiti read: “Babylon is burning.”

The far-right leader Marine Le Pen and Jean-Luc Mélenchon, head of the leftwing party La France Insoumise, both called on Macron to dissolve parliament and hold elections.

The violence started on Saturday in broad daylight on the edges of a peaceful demonstration by the gilets jaunes movement, which began two weeks ago in protest at rising fuel prices and a new green fuel tax.

After three successive Saturday citizens’ marches in Paris organised on social media, the security forces seemed at a loss to stop the rioting, with groups of masked men spilling into nearby streets, ripping up benches and traffic lights and hurling bits of paving stones from roadworks.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The scene in Paris on Sunday morning. Photograph: Chesnot/Getty Images

An Élysée spokesman said Macron wanted policing procedures to be reviewed in terms of “maintaining order in the days to come”. No date was set for the prime minister to meet representatives from the gilets jaunes movement to revive talks that last week amounted to nothing.

Demonstrators continued to stage small roadblocks in towns around France on Sunday. Other cities saw violent clashes between protesters and police on Saturday, notably Toulouse where 48 police officers were injured. In the town of Puy-en-Velay on Saturday, the prefect’s office briefly caught fire after it was petrol-bombed.

Over the weekend more than 130,000 people demonstrated across France in the gilets jaunes movement, and there were more than 580 roadblocks around the country.-------------------'We are last generation that can stop climate change' – UN summit






The UN climate change summit begins on Monday with a warning that today’s generation is the last that can prevent catastrophic global warming, as well as the first to be suffering its impacts.

Almost 200 nations were set to meet in Poland for two weeks, aiming to hammer out a vital agreement to turn the carbon-cutting vision set in Paris in 2015 into reality. Moves to rapidly ramp up action would be another key goal, with current pledges leaving the world on track for a disastrous 3C of warming.

We have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe, warns UN Read more

The negotiations will take place against a background of ominous news: the past four years have been the hottest on record and global emissions were rising again, when they need to fall by half by 2030. Climate action must be increased fivefold to limit warming to the 1.5C scientists advise, according to the UN.

The political backdrop contains challenges as well, with climate change denial from the US president, Donald Trump, and attacks on the UN process from Brazil’s incoming Bolsonaro administration. The hosting of the summit by a coal-friendly Polish government further worries some observers. But the EU’s new intention to become climate neutral and the plummeting cost of renewable energy have been positives, while a year of extreme weather was anticipated to focus minds.

“We are clearly the last generation that can change the course of climate change, but we are also the first generation with its consequences,” said Kristalina Georgieva, the CEO of the World Bank. The bank announced on Monday that its record $100bn (£78bn) of climate funding from 2021-2025 would for the first time be split equally between projects to cut emissions and those protecting people from the floods, storms and droughts that global warming is making worse.

In recent years, just 5% of global funding has gone on protection, but 2018 has seen climate impacts hit hard, with heatwaves and wildfires in Europe and California and huge floods in India, Japan and east Africa. “We are already seeing the devastating impact of climate change,” Georgieva told the Guardian. “We strongly believe that action ought to go both on mitigation and on adaptation.”

“Climate extremes are the new normal,” said Prof Patrick Verkooijen, the CEO of the Global Center on Adaptation, in the Netherlands. “The climate debate can no longer only be about the causes – it also needs to focus on how billions of people at risk can rapidly adapt.

Climate change already a health emergency, say experts Read more

Rich nations have promised $100bn a year by 2020 to help poorer countries adapt to climate change and develop clean energy. Negotiators in Poland would have to bring the two blocs together with firm agreement on how the promise would be fulfilled.

Gebru Jember Endalew, the chair of the 47-strong Least Developed Countries Group, said: “We represent almost one billion people, the people who are least responsible for climate change but among those most vulnerable to its effects. The longer poor countries have to wait [for funding], the larger the cost will become.”

The negotiators in Poland must also produce a rulebook governing how action pledged under the Paris agreement was tracked and reported to ensure all nations play their part.

“Fair and effective rules for accounting must be established, with special responsibilities for the big emitters such as the US and Europe but also China and India,” said Prof Johan Rockström, at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany. “While defining a rulebook sounds boring, it is in fact essential.”

The role of the Polish hosts will be crucial and the deputy energy minister Michał Kurtyka has said it would focus on using forests to take carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, electric vehicles and ensuring workers in fossil fuel industries were helped into new jobs.

Poland generates 80% of its electricity from coal and the UN summit will take place in a coal mining town, Katowice. The Polish government has also allowed two coal companies to sponsor the summit.

Climate-heating greenhouse gases at record levels, says UN Read more

“Having major coal companies as climate summit sponsors sends the worst possible signal at the worst possible time,” said Robert Cyglicki, Greenpeace’s director in Central and Eastern Europe. “It would be like Philip Morris sponsoring a health summit where a cigarette ban is supposed to be agreed. We will know this was a successful summit if coal companies regret sponsoring it.”

Many nations remain firmly committed to climate action, particularly France and China. But the UN secretary general, António Guterres, warned last week that the rise of populism was undermining the political will of some countries to work with others. “We have more and more nationalist approaches being popular and winning elections,” he said. “This has led in my opinion to a lack of political will.”

“Every day, we witness the effects of the changing climate on poor and vulnerable people around the world,” said Adriana Opromolla, at NGO Caritas Internationalis. “Transformation is possible, but political will is needed to make it happen.”-------------------NYPD to return British couple's engagement ring lost after proposal






New York police locate pair after tweeting film of their battle to retrieve ring from grate

A British couple who suffered the nightmare of losing their engagement ring after their proposal in New York are to be reunited with it after police retrieved it and located them through an online appeal.

A CCTV video captured the aftermath when John Drennan and Daniella Anthony failed to retrieve the ring from inside a subway grate, despite dozens of passersby helping them search for two hours. The clip was shared by the New York City police department on Saturday, going viral and amassing more than 20,000 retweets.

NYPD officers later managed to recover and clean the piece of jewellery, but could not find the couple so put out an appeal on Twitter.

NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) WANTED for dropping his fiancée’s ring in @TimesSquareNYC!

She said Yes - but he was so excited that he dropped the ring in a grate. Our @NYPDSpecialops officers rescued it & would like to return it to the happy couple. Help us find them? 💍 call 800-577-TIPS @NYPDTIPS @NYPDMTN pic.twitter.com/tPWg8OE0MQ

The tale quickly made headlines and the news soon reached the newly engaged pair, who had by then returned to the UK.

“The (now) happy couple is back in their home country, but thanks to your retweets they heard we were looking for them!” the NYPD wrote on Sunday. “We’re making arrangements to get them their ring back. Congratulations!”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest After finding the ring, New York City police are returning it to the couple in England. Photograph: AP

Arrangements have been made to return the rescued ring to the pair in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, and the NYPD tweeted a photo of the smiling couple holding a celebratory drink to toast the unlikely outcome.

NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) Thank you, Twitter. Case closed!



Love,

John, Daniella, and the NYPD. pic.twitter.com/G7eB1Ds7vP

In the photo, Anthony was seen wearing a ring on the traditional finger, although the couple said they abandoned plans to visit a jewellery store to replace the ring on discovering it had been found.

“We are so happy, we can’t believe it,” they told the BBC on Sunday evening. Drennan explained that he had put a lot of thought into the proposal and had carried the ring in his pocket for two days.

“I want to clarify that I did not propose over a grate in Times Square – that’s where we lost it,” he said, making clear that he actually asked the question in Central Park two hours earlier. “The time was right. There were autumn leaves everywhere and not many people.”

Anthony said yes, but the ring was too big for her finger. “I tried to tell John it was too big, but he insisted I wear it,” she said.

“I told her it was fine. I was just so happy to finally call her my fiancée after all this time,” Drennan added.

“We were walking back to the hotel. I can still visualise the ring. Bouncing once… bouncing twice and then it was gone,” Drennan said. “We just presumed it was gone. In the end, we had no choice but to walk away and try to enjoy the rest of our weekend.”

However, shortly after they touched down in the UK, a friend contacted them to ask whether they were indeed the couple the NYPD were searching for.

“We could not believe it, we really thought it was gone,” Anthony said. “We don’t use Twitter – we had absolutely no idea this was going on. But we are so happy.”

The couple added: “We are so thankful to everyone – especially the New York Police Department and everyone who shared our story.”-------------------Don't underestimate UK capabilities, MI6 chief to warn Russia






The head of MI6 will warn Russia not to underestimate the UK’s ability to retaliate in the wake of the Salisbury nerve agent attack, in a speech in which he will explain why Britain is developing “fourth-generation” espionage for a new and disturbing age.

Alex Younger will also set out how his agency, known formally as the Secret Intelligence Service (SIS), is preparing to strengthen ties with sister agencies in Europe amid continuing uncertainty over the possible repercussions of Brexit for security.

In only his second public speech since becoming “C” four years ago, Younger, 55, will address students at St Andrew’s University in Scotland, where he graduated before joining the army and then MI6. He is expected to focus on his concern about the myriad threats to the UK coming from a number of different spheres and how MI6 intends to keep pace with them.

Younger will say there are enemies who regard themselves to be in a state of perpetual confrontation with the UK – and in one passage, he is expected to directly challenge Russia. He will say MI6 played a central role in exposing the men behind the Salisbury attack and in the expulsion of the Russian diplomats that followed.

The aggressive approach embarrassed the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and was designed to show Russia and other potentially hostile states that Britain will “attach a cost” to any malign behaviour and then strike back. Younger will urge Russia “or any other state intent on subverting our way of life not to underestimate our determination and our capabilities or those of our allies”.

The emergence of unconventional “hybrid threats” to UK national security, which could involve techniques such as cyber attacks, the spread of fake news and interference in domestic politics, is expected to be another central theme of Younger’s speech. Techniques developed during the two world wars, the cold war and after the 9/11 terrorist attack will no longer be enough to disrupt terrorist attacks, he will say.

The UK’s enemies are probing UK institutions and defences in ways that fall short of traditional warfare. To counter this, MI6 is having to innovate by “fusing” the information it gets from human intelligence with what it can learn from artificial intelligence and the exponential rise in technology.

“The era of the fourth industrial revolution calls for a fourth generation of espionage: fusing our traditional human skills with accelerated innovation, new partnerships and a mindset that mobilises diversity and empowers the young,” Younger is expected to say.

With extra money from the government in recent years, and plans to expand the service, Younger has been seeking to change its “James Bond” and Oxbridge image. The service is trying to become more diverse and reach out to communities that might not see themselves as recruiting grounds for MI6.

Younger will ask them to think again, arguing that the agency will only continue to be operationally effective if it can appeal to a broader spectrum of people.

“I want to speak to young people who have never seen themselves in MI6 … it doesn’t matter where you are from. If you want to make a difference and you think you might have what it takes, then the chances are that you do have what it takes, and we hope you will step forward.”

Last year Younger told the Guardian that MI6 want to return to the old-school method of “tapping up” recruits as part of a concerted effort to draw in a new cadre of black and Asian officers and finally dispel the image of British spies as the preserve of a privileged elite.

“That was the way I was recruited. We have to go to people that would not have thought of being recruited to MI6. We have to make a conscious effort. We need to reflect the society we live in.”-------------------Woman killed on train may have been leaning out of window, say police






Passenger suffered blow to head on Bristol-bound service and died at scene

Woman killed on train may have been leaning out of window, say police

A woman killed on a train may have been leaning out of a window when she suffered a blow to the head, police have said.

She died after sustaining serious head injuries on a Bristol Temple Meads-bound service, between Bath and Keynsham, on Saturday evening.

Police said the woman’s death is not being treated as suspicious. The Rail Accident Investigation Branch has been informed.

A British Transport Police spokesman said: “We were called at around 10.10pm following a report a woman had received serious head injuries while travelling on a train between Bath and Keynsham.

“Officers from British Transport Police attended along with colleagues from Avon and Somerset police and South Western ambulance service but, despite their best efforts, the woman died at the scene.

“Our investigation remains at an early stage, but initial inquiries suggest the woman may have been leaning out of a window when she suffered a blow to the head. Officers are currently working to confirm her identity and inform her next of kin.

“We are continuing to investigate the circumstances of the incident, which has been reported to the Rail Accident Investigation Branch. The death is not being treated as suspicious and a file will be prepared for the coroner.”

In August 2016 railway enthusiast Simon Brown, 24, died after his head hit a signal gantry as he leaned out of a speeding train travelling from Gatwick to London Victoria.-------------------Trump 'likes' North Korean leader and will 'fulfil Chairman Kim's wishes'






Donald Trump wants North Korean leader Kim Jong-un to know he likes him and will fulfil his wishes, South Korean president Moon Jae-in said on Sunday, a day after meeting the US president at the G20 summit in Argentina.

Donald Trump and Xi Jinping declare trade truce at G20 Read more

Moon, who is hoping to host Kim on the first ever trip to Seoul by a North Korean leader, as agreed earlier this year, said Trump had asked him to pass on a message.

“The message is that President Trump has very favourable views toward Chairman Kim and he likes him,” Moon told reporters on a flight to New Zealand, where he started a three-day state visit on Sunday.

“As such, he asked me to tell Chairman Kim that he wants to implement the rest of their agreement together and he will fulfil Chairman Kim’s wishes.”

While striking, the avowal of affection was not as strident as one offered by Trump in September. Then, the president drew applause at a campaign rally by describing “beautiful” letters he had exchanged with Kim and saying: “We fell in love, OK?”

Play Video 0:27 'He wrote me beautiful letters and we fell in love': Donald Trump on Kim Jong-un - video

Trump, who met Kim in Singapore in June, said on Saturday he is likely to meet the North Korean leader next in January or February, with three sites under consideration.

“We’re getting along very well,” Trump said on Air Force One. “We have a good relationship.”

Trump added that at some point he will invite Kim to the US.

Kim and Trump pledged at their first meeting to work towards denuclearisation, although the two sides have since made little progress.

The White House said in a statement on Saturday after Trump’s meeting with Chinese president Xi Jinping that they and Kim will strive “to see a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula”. The statement said Xi and Trump “agreed that great progress has been made with respect to North Korea”.

Sign up for the new US morning briefing

Trump has frequently described a warm personal relationship with Kim, arguing that this will help achieve a diplomatic breakthrough.

Trump’s critics say warm words have failed to yield concrete concessions from one of the world’s most authoritarian states.

Moon said a second summit between Kim and Trump will prove to be the “most critical moment” for North Korean denuclearisation.-------------------Big Issue to trial card readers after steep decline in carrying cash






Homeless vendors to do eight-week trial of card readers that could be rolled out nationally

With cash no longer king, and electronic payments on the rise, there is less and less of the spare change that homeless people and many charities rely on around.

But the Big Issue has announced plans to embrace the technological change, and hopefully boost its homeless vendors’ income, by issuing them with card readers.

Instead of digging at the bottom of their pockets for notes and coins, potential purchasers will be able to just tap to pay for their magazine.

The eight-week trial, beginning on Monday in London, Bath, Birmingham, Bristol and Nottingham, is a response to figures showing cash payments in steep decline – falling from 62% of transactions in the UK in 2006 to 40% last year.

They are expected to decline further to 21% by 2026. Last year Barclaycard warned that charities may be missing out on more than £80m each year by only accepting cash donations.

'People just don't carry cash nowadays': how Britons are adapting to cashless world Read more

Russell Blackman, managing director of the Big Issue, said: “Obviously, we’re moving swiftly towards a cashless society. In the last few years, Big Issue sellers have been proactive and they’ve gone off and purchased their own payment devices, but we hope this pilot is the starting point that will provide more vendors with an income in the changing landscape.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Big Issue vendors, Easton Christian, Emma Ford, Paul Logan and Mary Holden, who will now be able to offer their customers the option to pay for the magazine by card. Photograph: Louise Haywood-Schiefer/PA

If the trial goes smoothly, it will be rolled out nationally, although it will not be simple. To have a card reader, a vendor must have a bank account, which requires a fixed address. As a result, the pilot has been limited to 20 sellers and, if it is to be expanded, Big Issue will have to work with vendors and banks to help them open accounts.

One of those participating in the trial, Paul Logan, 59, who sells the magazine in Bristol, said people often told him they were not carrying cash, although it was sometimes difficult to tell whether they were just making an excuse.

“People comment: ‘Don’t you have a method where I can pay by card, that would be easier and more people would be able to buy it,’” he said. “It can only help if they see that I can offer them an option. I think it most definitely should increase the money I get. I’ll just have to shout out: ‘We take debit cards and credit cards.’”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Big Issue vendor, Kris Owen, with his new iZettle card reader. Photograph: Francesca Stone/PA

Another trial participant, Easton Christian, 64, who sells the magazine at White City, London, said he had “definitely noticed a dip in the number of people carrying cash, which has had a knock-on effect on the number of magazines that I’m able to sell”.

Other social enterprises and charities have also been exploring ways to ensure they do not miss out as a result of the dash away from cash.

The Observer view on the shameful rise in rough sleepers | Observer editorial Read more

Earlier this year, Greater Change was launched in Oxford, which allowed passersby to donate to homeless people via an app by scanning a barcode worn around the individual’s neck. In the Netherlands, the Helpless Heart contactless jacket trial last year allowed passersby to donate by tapping a card on the chest of the homeless person’s coat.

In the US, the newspaper Street Scene launched an app last year to enable homeless vendors to take cashless payments, and collect the money from the offices at the end of the day. In Sweden, Situation Sthlm, also a newspaper sold by homeless people, has teamed up with the same card reader company – iZettle - as the Big Issue.

Tap London ran a pilot scheme earlier this year that allowed homeless vendors carrying contactless card readers to raise money for homeless charities, while being paid the living wage, by selling cards designed by local artists.

On Wednesday, the social enterprise launched an initiative, backed by Sadiq Khan, allowing people to donate £3 at contactless points around the capital to help tackle homelessness, which has already had more than 1,000 taps.

Katie Whitlock, co-founder of Tap London, said: “People really want to give and we’re not carrying much change anymore, and it’s having a detrimental effect on people and charities, and that’s beyond homelessness.

“Hearing the Big Issue is planning to do the same [go contactless], we’re really thrilled, hopefully it will make a big difference to their vendors. The UK’s been waiting for this.”-------------------Billy Connolly announces retirement from live performance






Billy Connolly has announced that after a half-century career in standup, music, film and television he is retiring from live performing.

The news came in an interview where the comedian also revealed he had tried medicinal cannabis to treat his Parkinson’s disease, likened Donald Trump to Adolf Hitler, and rebutted Michael Parkinson’s claim that his illness had “dulled” his brain.

“He thought I’d lost track, mentally, but I never remember what year anything was,” Connolly told the Radio Times. “I haven’t a clue. I’ve always been about going forward, not the past. Plus, we were doing the GQ event, I was Inspiration of the Year, and I blew everybody away. He should have remembered that …

“These Yorkshiremen, I don’t think they apologise much. I wasn’t disappointed, it just made my life a bit difficult. People feeling sorry for me, I don’t like that.”

The Glaswegian said reports of his serious poor health were exaggerated. However, he conceded that his touring days were behind him.

Connolly, 76, who revealed he had the degenerative condition in 2013 and had successful treatment for prostate cancer in the same year, said his illness was now manageable.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Billy Connolly on stage in the 1980s. Photograph: Photoshot/Getty Images

He said his wife, Pamela Stephenson Connolly, had become his nurse, and he had given up using medicinal marijuana to relieve his symptoms. “I just got bomb happy. Just stoned. It was quite pleasant, but I don’t want to do that every day,” he said.

Connolly, who lives in Florida, also discussed international politics. He has been concerned by the success of Trump, citing the US president’s election as a sign that fascism is on the rise around the world. He said Trump’s rhetoric was akin to “Hitlerian lie-telling”.

“His rise is part of an international thing,” Connolly said. “It’s happening everywhere. I think it’s called fascism. They can call it white nationalism if they like, or alt-right, but it’s that Hitlerian lie-telling.

“Mocking the press, saying they’re the enemy of the people. It’s kind of frightening. Let’s wait until his time’s up. It will happen. Let’s just hope there isn’t a world war before that.”

Brexit is a “con-job”, Connolly went on to say, adding that he is opposed to Scottish nationalism and refuses to be a flag-waver.

Connolly has been promoting his new programme, Billy Connolly’s Ultimate World Tour, a travelogue in which he gives a guided tour of Florida while reminiscing on his world-spanning adventures, from his sheer amazement at the scale of the Grand Canyon to dancing naked in Orkney.-------------------'It's the real me': Nigerian president denies dying and being replaced by clone






'It's the real me': Nigerian president denies dying and being replaced by clone

Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has denied claims that he had died and was replaced by a Sudanese impostor, breaking his silence on a rumour that has circulated on social media for months.

Political intrigue swirls around Buhari as May arrives in Nigeria Read more

Buhari, who is running for re-election in February, spent five months in Britain last year being treated for an undisclosed illness. One theory widely aired on social media – and by some political opponents – was that he had been replaced by a lookalike from Sudan called Jubril.

No evidence has been presented, but videos making the claim have been viewed thousands of times on YouTube and Facebook.

Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) One of the questions that came up today in my meeting with Nigerians in Poland was on the issue of whether I‘ve been cloned or not. The ignorant rumours are not surprising — when I was away on medical vacation last year a lot of people hoped I was dead. pic.twitter.com/SHTngq6LJU

“It’s the real me, I assure you. I will soon celebrate my 76th birthday and I will still go strong,” Buhari told Nigerians in a town hall session in Poland on Sunday, where he was attending a conference, when asked about Jubril.

“A lot of people hoped that I died during my ill health. Some even reached out to the Vice President to consider them to be his deputy because they assumed I was dead. That embarrassed him a lot and of course, he visited me when I was in London convalescing,’’ he said, adding that those who spread the rumour were “ignorant and irreligious”.

The Nigerian leader said he was looking forward to celebrating his 76th birthday on December 17 and jocularly added: ‘‘If I am getting harassed by anyone, it is my grandchildren, who are getting too many.’’

The presidency circulated Buhari’s comments in an emailed statement entitled “It’s Real Me, President Buhari Responds to Cloning Allegation”.

A video of the president answering the question, which shows his colleagues laughing as the question is read out, has been posted to the president’s Twitter account, which is followed by 1.76m people, where it is pinned as his top tweet.-------------------Honduras, a dam and the murder of Berta Cáceres






Seven men have been convicted of the murder of an award-winning environmental activist in Honduras. But has justice been done for Berta Cáceres? The Guardian’s Nina Lakhani explores what the case says about the state of modern Honduras. Plus: Mark Townsend on how easy it is to buy converted firearms in the UK

On 2 March 2016, a prominent environmental activist and campaigner for women’s rights, Berta Cáceres, was shot dead at her home in Honduras.

Last week seven men were found guilty of her murder at the end of five-week trial. The court ruled that the killing by a group of hitmen was ordered by executives of a company building a dam that she had protested against.

The Guardian’s Nina Lakhani describes how Cáceres’s murder, in a country where corruption is rife, attracted international attention. Honduras’s justice system has received millions in US and European aid, but the case was plagued by allegations of negligence, secrecy and bias.

Also today: how easy is it to buy a converted firearm in the UK? The Observer’s Mark Townsend on his investigation.

Nina Lakhani’s book on the life and death of Berta Caceres will be published by Verso Books in 2019-------------------The G20: Donald Trump and the rise of the strongmen






How did a forum for global cooperation become a stage for authoritarians? The Guardian world affairs editor, Julian Borger, analyses the G20 ahead of the summit in Buenos Aires with the help of the Guardian’s foreign correspondents. Plus William Davies on why we stopped trusting elites

When the G20 first met in 2008, it was in the heat of a global economic meltdown as world leaders worked together to help stabilise the plunging financial markets. But for the G20’s 10th birthday summit, the mood around the table has changed. Some of the biggest countries including the US, China, Brazil, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are run by populist autocrats and authoritarians.

Joining Anushka Asthana is the Guardian’s world affairs editor, Julian Borger, who is in Buenos Aires for the summit. He says the focus will be on a series of bilateral relationships, particularly between Donald Trump and China’s Xi Jinping, Russia’s Vladimir Putin and Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. We hear from the Guardian’s foreign correspondents Tania Branigan, Andrew Roth and Martin Chulov.

Plus in opinion: William Davies on why we stopped trusting elites.-------------------North Sentinel Island and the strange death of John Allen Chau – podcast






The death of an American missionary on a remote Indian island has sparked a backlash in India. The Guardian’s Michael Safi describes how John Allen Chau was killed after trying to preach Christianity to one of the world’s last remaining indigenous societies who live in total isolation. Plus John Harris on the trouble with Airbnb

John Allen Chau was last seen alive on the morning of 16 November. He had paid a group of fishermen to take him to the remote Indian island of North Sentinel, where a tribe is thought to have lived for more than 30,000 years with barely any outside contact.

The Guardian’s Michael Safi has been following the case, which has drawn interest from across the globe and caused uproar in India. He traces the story of the Sentinelese and their contact with colonialists and anthropologists, which foreshadowed the events of this month.

Plus: the Guardian’s John Harris on the social impact of the growth in the market for the “sharing economy” property rental site Airbnb.-------------------Durian: the foul-smelling fruit that could make Malaysia millions






Often reviled for its pungent odour, the crop has become a delicacy in China – and export demand is rocketing

High up in the lush green mountains of Raub, you can smell them before you see them. The pungent waft in the morning breeze comes as quickly as it goes, but there is no mistaking: this part of Malaysia is the land of the durian.

Called the “king of fruits” by 19th-century British naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace, durian’s overpowering smell – fragrant to some noses, putrid to others – has led it to be banned from hotels and public transport across Asia, and has even prompted evacuations from airports and hospitals. However, in China something of a cultish national obsession with durian has grown in the past few years, particularly around the Musang King variety, grown almost entirely in Malaysia.

And where there is Chinese appetite, there is money. In the highlands of Raub, and all across the south-east Asian country, farmers and landowners are tearing up traditional rubber and palm oil crops to harvest this mutant-looking native fruit instead.

“When I started out, people all told me there was no money in durian, but that couldn’t be more different now,” said Lindsay Gasik, who has written a book on the fruit and runs durian tours across Asia.

“I treat durian like a wine because it is like a wine – it is a living organism that changes and ferments over its lifespan, so you can really do a lot with the flavour. I think that’s what makes people so obsessive over it.”

Durian’s distinctive smell is infamous, but its flavour – at once sweet and savoury – adds to its divisiveness. Wallace described it as a “rich custard highly flavoured with almonds”. Feet, butterscotch pudding, ice cream and rotting eggs have also been used as comparisons.

Whatever it is, Chinese consumers love it: durian cakes, ice-cream and sweets are all the rage and several restaurants even specialise in durian pizza. The demand has driven up the price of durian by up to 20 times over the past four years.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A durian fruit. Photograph: Tai/Getty Images

In Malaysia, farmers are rubbing their hands. Thailand is currently the only country allowed to export whole durian to China, either fresh or frozen, but a new deal struck between the Malaysian and Chinese governments will enable Malaysian farmers to export whole frozen durian directly for the first time from January next year, tapping into a market currently worth nearly £400m and rising.

While the durian export market is very new in Malaysia – the first exports only began around 2012 – the government is pushing for the Musang King to become one of the country’s biggest exports, hoping for a 50% jump in exports by 2030, almost entirely to China. Some predict it could become more lucrative for Malaysia than palm oil.

Even Malaysia’s prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, has seized upon it. “I feel it is time that we produce durians on a large-scale and systematic manner. In China alone there are 1.4 billion people who enjoy the fruit,” he has said.

Adrian Yeo, who now owns six Musang King durian farms across Raub as part of his company, Durian Wonderland, is one of those investing in the crop and says the opening up of the China market in 2019 will “have a huge impact”. In anticipation, he planted 81 acres of durian last year and his farmers are in the process of planting 5,000 new trees, mostly Musang King but also a “hot” new variety called Black Thorn, all in anticipation of Chinese demand.

“In China, durian has become a status symbol and the demand is huge, especially among the younger generation,” said Yeo. “In Malaysia, I would say the focus in the durian market is 90% on China now.”

A decade ago Malaysia’s much-maligned durian farmers were lucky to get two ringgit (37p) per kilogram for their product, but now Musang King can go for up to 60 ringgit (£11) per kilo – far more lucrative than both palm oil and rubber, whose prices have slumped in the past few years. Evidence of rubber trees being swapped for durian was evident across the farms of Raub.

Yet as the head farmer of Durian Wonderland, Fatt Husiasoonhuat, emphasised, growing durian is a “delicate art” and “takes a lot of time and care, much more than palm oil trees”. Walking up the steep hill of the Sungai Ruan orchard, where Musang King fruits hung from the trees like pungent grenades, he pointed to the green string that had been individually hand-tied from the branches to each fruit.

“In Malaysia we don’t pluck the durian from the tree, we wait for them to fall off naturally so the flavour is ripe,” he explained. “In the old times we would just collect them from the floor, but if we want to export them to China they can’t touch the ground. So we tie them with string, which catches them.”

Dogs also roam around the farm to ward off monkeys, who don’t like eating durian but do enjoy picking them from the tree and smashing them on the ground.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A durian pizza at a restaurant in Shanghai. Photograph: Aly Song/Reuters

Once the ripe durian is carefully lowered to the ground by the farmers, it is rushed to the deep freeze within two hours, where it is frozen at -70C to keep it fresh for export.

Nonetheless the surge in durian farming has raised some environmental concerns – mainly that jungle land is being cleared to make way for plantations.

Sheema Abdul Aziz, president of environmental group Rimba, expressed concern about durian-driven deforestation in Malaysia and said that in the end the farmers were “shooting themselves in the foot”.

“This not only causes the destruction of critical habitat for wide-ranging animals such as tigers, elephants, primates and hornbills,” said Aziz. “It also reduces the numbers of the very pollinators that are necessary for durian fruit production, and which the durian industry therefore heavily relies on for profit.”-------------------Gun No 6 review – a magisterial portrait of the misery wreaked by a single firearm






Ten years, 11 shootings, three murders, one gun. This was the basic story of Sunday night’s documentary by James Newton, Gun No 6 (BBC Two). But it was so much more.

The opening few minutes induced a faint, shadowy sense, a tiny pulsing in the breast, of something approaching national pride. We learned that, thanks to legislation introduced swiftly and almost without controversy after the Hungerford and Dunblane mass shootings, Britain is a country with so few illegal handguns in circulation that most of them can be tracked (if not tracked down) by the police through the crime scenes they leave behind as they are passed from shooter to shooter within and between gangs. Gun No 6 is – so far – the deadliest.

But guns don’t kill people. People kill people. The genius of the programme was to take this platitude – usually delivered by those seeking to abdicate responsibility for gun crime and advocate arming a population – and turn it on its head. It looked acutely, unflinchingly, at the people – men convicted of shootings, armed robberies, gun possession and other crimes, for which they served long sentences before building themselves better lives – and asked them why.

Honest, awful answers came thick and fast from former gang members who talked about the guns they had owned temporarily as loyal friends, sanctuaries (you are, for a short while, untouchable), glamorous accessories and repositories of unfathomable power.

David, who saw his first gun at 12 and became homeless at 13 when his separated parents refused to have him, became an armed robber at 17. He was clear on the impossibility of staying rational when you have a gun in your hand, especially when your default feeling is worthlessness. “You hear a ‘No’,” he said. “It sets you off … We started to bond. It was like the gun is speaking to me.” Leroy, who served 20 years after shooting two police officers, said: “It turns you into a horrible, nasty person, because you’re always right. But nobody’s always right. People love you because they’re scared of you. That’s not love. You understand?”

Their testimony was offered without self-pity or self-justification. Newton did a magisterial job of letting the desperate humanity come through without letting the film slide into sentimentality or cloying sympathy.

At the other end of the gun, of course, are the victims. We didn’t hear from many, because Gun No 6 has mostly been deployed in gang-on-gang violence and neither victims nor witnesses broke the omerta for the police investigations, never mind a film-maker, for fear of retaliation (or because they intended to avenge themselves). But we heard from those left behind after their loved ones were murdered by gang members. Ishfaq Ahmed, a doorman, was killed by a member of a Birmingham gang as he gave chase after they rushed the doors of his club in 2004. “It was the fact he wouldn’t see Anita grow up,” his widow said softly as their daughter cried. Akeem Huntley tried to treat his dad’s killing philosophically. “I wanted revenge but … what’s meant to be is what’s meant to be,” he says. “You won’t see me show emotion about it, but I think about Dad every day. Because, if it hadn’t happened, my life would have been different. Am I right or wrong?”

The story of Craig Hodson-Walker, killed in front of his parents during an armed robbery at their post office in 2009, bookended the film. There are never enough words for a parent’s grief. “I knew my boy was injured,” remembers his dad, Ken, watching CCTV footage of him struggling to get to his feet and reach Craig after himself being shot in the knee. “Things like that never go away …It doesn’t get any easier, that’s for sure.” His mother remembers that Craig always slept through the night as a baby. Now that he will not wake again, “I often think: why would it be normal for someone to pick up a gun? And that question needs to be answered somewhere.”

In allowing the men who hand on misery to speak of their own, as well as giving voice to those who have suffered, this quietly daring, profound and moving film went further in answering that question than any single attempt I have seen. May it bring everyone involved a measure of peace.-------------------‘I think Christmas starts a bit late to be honest’: is early December too soon to start celebrating?






Have you been eating mince pies since September – or do you believe the merriment shouldn’t start until Christmas Eve? We took to the streets to find out

‘I think Christmas starts a bit late to be honest’: is early December too soon to start celebrating?

Complaining that Christmas has come too early is an age-old tradition: as early as 1901, a piece in the Philadelphia Inquirer lamented the early buying of Christmas presents. This year, seeing festive wrapping paper in September in supermarkets as we boiled in a heatwave felt even more bizarre than usual. But can it ever be a bad time to bring on merriment and joy? And do people think Christmas has come early at all? Poppy Noor took to the streets to find out.

Andy Bilson, 67, and David Tobis, 74

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian

Andy: I’m not against Christmas, but starting in November is a bit stupid. I love mince pies, though! Mince pies should come all year round. I’ve had four. I bought a twin pack and ate both, with my own rum cream.

David: I think Christmas hasn’t come early enough! I’m visiting from the US so I want to see it while I’m here.

Mince pies eaten: 4

Joshua Bennett, 19, and Ebba Falk, 20

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian

Joshua: Christmas hasn’t come too early. Although I noticed they put up the lights on Regent Street just after Halloween, which is a bit early. I haven’t had any mince pies yet, but I have had mulled wine.

Ebba: It gets dark so early in the winter, so it’s beautiful to be able to see the Christmas lights. I’ve had a mince pie this year – and I don’t like them! But my boss gave it to me so …

Mince pies eaten: 1

Ann Buysschaerat, 51, Boy Buysschaerat, 9, Claudie Couck, 45, Febe Nolf, 15, and Bo Nolf, 12

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian

All: It’s never too early for Christmas!

Febe: I’m already celebrating. I’ve been listening to Christmas music since September – Mariah Carey, Ariana Grande, Justin Bieber. It’s great to be in London because you guys celebrate it so much more.

Ann: We haven’t eaten any mince pies … We’re from Belgium and it’s not a Belgian thing.

Mince pies eaten: 0

Salma Faraji, 48

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian

I think every year Christmas just comes to the shops earlier and earlier. I’m not going shopping any more because there’s so much Christmas stuff at the forefront. I totally appreciate the celebration but why start in August or September? For people who work full-time it’s too much. Today I’m going to my 30-year school reunion; we went to a boarding school, so for us, Christmas always came late.

Mince pies eaten so far: 0

Sandra Florez, 37

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian

Christmas has definitely come too early. Halloween hadn’t passed and there were already Christmas decorations in the shops. All that anticipation, it puts way too much pressure on. All of a sudden you’re worrying about presents, Christmas parties and food. It shouldn’t begin before the 1st December. I refuse to do any celebrating before then! And I don’t like mince pies.

Mince pies eaten: 0

Liam Osbourne, 32

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian

In my family, Christmas starts 1 November. We love Christmas, so the more time we have to celebrate it, the merrier – I think it starts a bit late here to be honest. My grandma used to decorate department stores and I think she just took on that early festive mentality. I’m already celebrating in my own way, I’m listening to Motown Christmas on repeat. I’ve been saving Mariah Carey for December. My rule is not to drink at every Christmas party or you won’t make it through. And don’t eat any mince pies – they just don’t do it for me.

Mince pies eaten: 0-------------------Behind closed doors, Labour inches closer to a second referendum






Last Wednesday at 2.30pm Jeremy Corbyn’s shadow cabinet gathered as usual in the Norman Shaw North wing of the House of Commons for their weekly meeting. Tea and plain biscuits were served – and the mood was serious to the point of being almost sombre. Particularly so, initially, because discussion focused on a disturbing report on poverty in the UK by the UN’s rapporteur Philip Alston. The shadow secretary of state for work and pensions, Margaret Greenwood, made a presentation, and for over an hour members of the Labour top team expressed dismay at the legacy of Tory austerity on the poorest in society.

But those present were anxious and earnest for another reason. They knew Labour had to decide what to do next about Brexit. The fact that Theresa May’s deal with the EU was looking more likely, by the day, to be defeated in the House of Commons on 11 December was not just a looming catastrophe for the prime minister. It also required, urgently, a clearer strategy from Labour.

The rocky, risky road to a people’s vote Read more

What would Her Majesty’s official opposition, split like the Tories over Brexit and ultra-cautious in every move until now, do amid the chaos that would inevitably follow defeat for the prime minister?

With less than half an hour left before the meeting had to end, because MPs had to go to vote, the shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, opened a discussion that could well, one day, feature in the history books. According to several sources who were there, Starmer made clear that if and when May lost the “meaningful” vote, Labour had to be ready, as he put it, to “move quickly through the gears”. What he meant was twofold, said those in attendance. First he was clear that Labour should waste no time in calling a no-confidence vote in the government, which if passed could lead to a general election. Several shadow cabinet ministers agreed that this should happen within 24 hours.

But, given that few at the top of Labour (Jeremy Corbyn, shadow chancellor John McDonnell and Starmer included) believe such a no-confidence motion has much realistic chance of succeeding – as Labour does not have the numbers – Starmer’s reference to moving “through the gears” meant that further moves had to be prepared.

“What was clear and implicit from what he said,” said a shadow cabinet member, “was that if and when we fail with a no-confidence motion, we must be ready very quickly to take up the option of a second referendum, if that is the best route to take. The danger for us of not doing that could be that we would have no policy at all.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The People’s Vote march in central London in October. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Observer

Up until last Wednesday, Labour had taken refuge in the convenient, if slightly implausible, argument that it could bring down the government by forcing an election, and then somehow renegotiate a better deal for the country once in power. That tactical line served a split party well, keeping enough people on both sides of its Brexit divide tolerably content.

But with the vote fast approaching and a TV debate between Corbyn and May pencilled in for next Sunday, it could hold only for so long. Starmer and others could see that if Labour failed to force an election, and with the EU adamant that it will not renegotiate in any substantial way, the opposition looked like running out of policy options.

Several senior figures at the meeting strongly backed Starmer, including Tom Watson, the deputy leader, Tony Lloyd, the shadow Northern Ireland secretary, and Richard Corbett, leader of Labour MEPs in the European parliament, who all specifically said the party should prepare for the option of a second referendum. Those at the meeting said it was clear that Remain would have to be on the ballot paper.

Crucially, several shadow cabinet ministers confirmed that Corbyn offered no real objection to the proposal, although the Labour leader stressed the need to move step by step, with the first task being to ensure that the prime minister’s deal was voted down. Watson was particularly strong on the need for clarity. McDonnell too appeared to have come round to the idea, saying in a BBC interview the same day that it now looked “inevitable” that Labour would back a second referendum.

Only two shadow cabinet members – the campaign coordinator Ian Lavery and shadow lord chancellor, Richard Burgon – are said to have spoken out against, warning that pro-Brexit Labour voters would never forgive them. Lavery said, according to one source: “If we support a second referendum we will never get the keys to Downing Street.” Those who agreed were, though, in the minority.

Sam Gyimah: second Brexit referendum best option for both sides Read more

Labour’s progress towards backing a second referendum has been slow and difficult. But pressure has been building, not least because the mass membership supports one. For Corbyn, a lifelong Eurosceptic, it has clearly been painful. Only two weeks ago he was saying the party had to honour the result of the 2016 referendum, meaning no second vote.

And the party is not there yet. Another referendum would have to be officially endorsed by the shadow cabinet, and possibly the parliamentary Labour party. Even then, legislation would have to pass through the Commons and then decisions about the question to be put determined by MPs and finalised by the Electoral Commission. Tory MPs would have to come out in favour, as some Labour Eurosceptics such as Kate Hoey and Graham Stringer would oppose it.

We are some way off yet. But there is a clear movement. On Friday Sam Gyimah resigned as universities minister, saying a second referendum should be considered. With parliament increasingly deadlocked and Labour moving “through the gears”, it is starting to look like there may be no other viable option.-------------------Sally Rooney: ‘I don’t respond to authority very well’






Among the advice traditionally handed out to newbie writers are two classic injunctions: write what you know, and go out into the world to find out more. Sally Rooney, by her own admission, has observed the former to the exclusion of the latter. “I’ve never attempted to write from the perspective of someone older than me so my novels are all about my cohort,” she says. “That’s not about making a statement but it’s what I can do.”

Given that she had written two novels by her mid-20s, her cohort was inevitably limited. The main characters of both are Dublin university students – as Rooney herself was when she began to write them. Frances and Bobbi, from her debut Conversations With Friends, are ex-lovers with a burgeoning performance poetry partnership, while Marianne and Connell, in its follow-up Normal People, are “culchie” schoolfriends who, like their creator, move to the big city from small-town Ireland.

The history of fiction is littered with callow university novels, so what happened next was extraordinary: almost as soon as Conversations with Friends appeared in the spring of 2017, Rooney was being hailed as the voice of the millennials, a Snapchat Salinger. It was an intensity of acclaim that happens once or twice in a generation, placing her alongside Donna Tartt or Zadie Smith as a writer who appeared to emerge fully formed, not only in her craft but as a literary celebrity and a mouthpiece for something in the culture that needed to be articulated.

Unlike Tartt or Smith, she already had a second novel ready to roll: in a rare state of excitability, the literary world held its breath for the arrival of Normal People, and before it had even been published it was longlisted for the Man Booker prize. Though it didn’t make the Booker shortlist, it has just been announced as Waterstones book of the year and won Rooney the award for international author of 2018 at the Specsavers national book awards. It is also shortlisted for the Costa book awards.

Sally Rooney's Normal People named Waterstones book of the year Read more

The woman who arrives to meet me at a stylish new coffee and yoga joint around the corner from the flat she shares with her maths teacher partner, is now all of 27 years old. Neatly and unobtrusively dressed, she talks rapidly in a manner that is simultaneously confident and self-deprecating.

How does it feel to be on such a rollercoaster? “There’s a frisson of weirdness of seeing your name mentioned and someone you don’t know talking about you. I have to discipline myself not to look at it, but obviously it’s on a very, very small scale – it’s not like you’re a Premier League football player,” she says, briskly. Yet the reception of her novels has taken seasoned commentators beyond the usual literary compliments. Reviewing Normal People in the Irish Times, Anne Enright wrote that it “adds, fearlessly, to an unsettling discussion about submission – I felt I understood something, at the end of it, that I had previously pushed away”. Ali Smith, who picked her out for a panel of debut writers, regards her writing as “a cocktail of high intelligence, truth and humaneness, and all three of these things are so properly contemporary and attuned, not just to now but to now plus the history of thought and politics, that it becomes apparent as you read her that she’s understood something happening in both language and society with a breadth that works like [an] undercurrent in the blood of a reader.”

Her characters drift in and out of relationships and talk earnestly of politics and literary theory; they holiday in France or Italy but sometimes don’t have enough money to eat. But Rooney is quick to brush away any suggestion that she is a cultural pundit, saying: “I certainly never intended to speak for anyone other than myself. Even myself I find it difficult to speak for. My books may well fail as artistic endeavours but I don’t want them to fail for failing to speak for a generation for which I never intended to speak in the first place.”

So what was the journey that brought her to this destination? “I can’t look back and say I was clearly on a trajectory. For ages it just seemed I was going round and round in circles, getting nowhere,” she says. Her biography, for someone who only broke the surface less than two years ago, is well rehearsed. In her own construction: “I was born in the same year a Virgin megastore was raided for selling condoms without a pharmacist present. Two years before the decriminalisation of homosexuality. Four years before the legalisation of divorce.”

In a more prosaic version, she was the middle of three children born in the county town of Castlebar to a father who worked for Telecom Éireann and a mother who ran the local arts centre. There were always books around the house and they encouraged her to read but, though she joined a creative writing group at 15, she didn’t take to school. “I think a large part of it was that it was being a teenager, which I didn’t enjoy,” she says. “But I don’t respond to authority very well. I fundamentally don’t agree with accepting authority that you haven’t agreed to in some way. As a funnel – as a way of making children into adults – I don’t think it’s good practice.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A supporter of the movement to abolish Ireland’s eighth amendment, which made abortions illegal in the country. It was overturned in a referendum in May this year. Photograph: Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images

She did not see herself as a high achiever. “I was not a precocious child. Before I went to do my degree I told my mother I was never going to read anything written before 1920. School was all about learning by rote and I can do that to a very passable degree, but I’d never do homework or assignments. I wasn’t failing, but I didn’t have any opportunity to pursue what interested me.”

She nevertheless won a place at Trinity College Dublin, which – numbering Oscar Wilde and Samuel Beckett, not to mention Enright, among its alumni – must surely have seemed pretty prestigious. Ah, she parries, but she didn’t get on to her first choice of course, being consigned to English literature when she had elected to study English and sociology. “I guess in a way maybe I was lucky. It was a completely new way of thinking about books and literature and it felt intellectually challenging. I was grappling with the modernists and 19th-century novels and even now I’m still developing the ability to read intelligently, which I hope will continue for the rest of my life.”

In her second year she took up debating, which took her on a team outing to Manchester, where she won the 2013 European University Debating Championships. But once again she is keen to play it down. “It was definitely interesting, though my experience with the competitive side of things is that it’s actually like a game. I was going to say like football but I think it’s less intellectually involved than football. Really it’s more like Scrabble.”

Her writing life also began to take shape in her second year, after – like the two central characters in Normal People – she was awarded a scholarship that would pay her food, rent and tuition and enable her to stay on for an MA. In the novel this experience is bisected along class lines, with well-to-do Marianne accepting it as a personal validation, while for Connell – whose single mother cleans for Marianne’s family – it is an intellectual lifeline. Which was it for Rooney herself? “It meant a huge amount to me,” she says. “My parents had been supporting me and I don’t think it would have been realistic for them to go on doing so for a master’s degree. It gave me a sense of security, and permission just to keep my place there for a longer period of time.”

She enrolled for a master’s in politics but dropped it after a few weeks in favour of American studies, completing a draft of Conversations With Friends in three months. “But it was a very drafty draft,” she says, so she put it away and wrote the first of two Connell and Marianne stories, in which they were in their mid-20s but clearly had a backstory dating to their school days. That first story went nowhere but the second, At the Clinic, was published in a literary magazine.

After she went back to Conversations and knocked it into shape, things began to move quickly: it was snapped up by Faber in a seven-way auction, and a month after delivering her MA thesis she began work on Normal People. “I thought of Conversations as my trial novel,” she says drily, “so it gave me a huge amount of permission to write the same thing over again.”

Student milieu aside, Normal People is not in fact the same novel over again. If Jane Austen could construct worlds on “two inches of ivory” Rooney has built them on a wafer of silicon: her characters are inhabitants of the networked society: they communicate by instant messaging, texts and email, but what it means to them is singular. For Frances, the scratchy first-person narrator of Conversations, it’s a way of keeping control when both her emotions and her body are in constant danger of letting her down, while Normal People’s Connell perceives it as a loss of autonomy. “He and Marianne can only talk over email, using the same communication technologies they now know are under surveillance, and it feels at times like their relationship has been captured in a complex network of state power, that the network is a form of intelligence in itself, containing them both, and containing their feelings for each other.”

I'm not interested in the psychology of cruel, abusive, exploitative people

The one area of personal relationships that cannot be electronically controlled is sex, which links lovers to friends in shifting and unpredictable combinations. The style in which Rooney writes about it is disarmingly plain. “In bed he asked me what felt good a lot,” says Frances, when she first sleeps with the married actor Nick, in Conversations With Friends. “I said everything felt good, I felt very flushed and I could hear myself making a lot of noise but only syllables, no real words. I closed my eyes. The inside of my body was hot like oil, I was possessed by an overwhelming and intense energy which seemed to threaten me. Please, I was saying. Please, please … But I surrendered without a struggle.”

“So much of our sexual culture and vocabulary has the potential to be degrading,” says Rooney, “There’s an archaic language which is guaranteed to sound false or the language of pornography which is not actually true. I was trying to be true. What I’m interested in to a large extent is intimacy, the discomfort, the loss of self – of being penetrated literally and also psychologically.”

Both novels are, to some extent, accounts of sexual obsessions. “Some people feel the sex isn’t very sexy but I’m not writing them for that,” she says. “Perhaps I’m trying to learn something about the characters through it, so it would be coy to have the scenes all off page.” Yet when her editor suggested that the sex in Normal People was a little too coy, Rooney resisted, arguing that, in the early stages of their relationship at least, Connell and Marianne didn’t have a sexual vocabulary “so to over-literalise would be to put ways of thinking into their heads that they wouldn’t have been able to articulate for themselves. On the other hand,” she says, “I was probably trying to avoid writing it. That’s the gift of being able to come up with a plausible argument.”

The politics of surrender is a recurrent theme, though the symmetries in which her characters find themselves are far from templates of #MeToo injustice. Nick might be older and married but he is in some ways weaker, less fully formed, than Frances; Connell might betray Marianne early on, but he is also her saviour. The monsters – a fascist boyfriend, an abusive brother – are pushed firmly to the margins. “There’s so much fiction and general cultural discourse around #MeToo, but it’s something I just don’t find very interesting to explore. I’m not interested in the psychology of cruel, abusive, exploitative people.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Trinity College Dublin, where Rooney studied English literature. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo

But there’s something else going on too, which is central to how she identifies her cohort: “Men,” she says, “are not so dissimilar really. It didn’t feel that writing about them was a leap because the thing about gender is that I don’t really believe in it. It’s a series of cultural practices, whereas being in your 40s and with children, for instance, is something I can’t imagine myself to be.”

Both novels have a moment in which a character thinks they, or their lover, might be pregnant – and it’s here that they are in some ways at their most culturally particular. When she wrote the books, abortion was illegal in Ireland. This spring, a referendum changed the law so, for all the apparent currency of their fears, her characters already occupy a space that is sealed in the past.

The long-running debate over abortion gave Rooney her political voice as a teenager outraged by activists who rolled up at her school to show pro-life propaganda videos. In a powerful essay for the London Review of Books earlier this year she deployed the full might of her debating skills in articulating her rage, concluding a thorough demolition of the case against abortion with the conclusion that “in the relationship between foetus and woman, the woman is granted fewer rights than a corpse”.

I've been blessed by feeling I'm with a group who read each other's work

On the eve of the referendum she tweeted: “Two weeks ago I wrote that we would not see a Yes vote over 67% – God please let me eat a gigantic portion of this unbelievably delicious humble pie.” In her heart of hearts, she says now, she believed that the change would get through and felt validated when it did. It reassured her that, for all that she now found herself part of a metropolitan commentariat, she was still in touch with the Irish heartlands from which she came.

Shortly after the referendum she announced her decision to stop tweeting, saying “novelists are given too much political prominence”. Several times in our conversation she invokes footballers as an elite that puts writers in their place. When I point this out, she explains that it is because “through no fault of their own they have a sublime gift and there’s nothing in their personality that would necessarily mean they enjoy fame. They don’t choose to be celebrities in the way that actors do. They just have it heaped on them.” For all her demurrals, it’s an analysis that clearly speaks for her own anxieties.

In Normal People, Connell is scathing about literary celebrity. At a lecture by a writer of “uneven, but sensitive in places, perceptive” short stories, he finds himself surrounded “only by people who wanted to be the kind of people who attended [literary events]”. It’s not a coincidence that, as the editor of the literary journal Stinging Fly, Rooney spends much of her time in just such literary circles, and several writers of sensitive, perceptive stories are among the dedicatees of her novels. “I’ve been blessed by feeling I’m with a group who read each other’s work.”

How does she account for the way that Ireland’s literary culture has not only survived the economic crash but flourished in it? “I’m assuming that there are weirdos everywhere who like writing prose and poetry but not everywhere has the literary heritage and the support for little magazines that enables them to be published,” she says. “Then there’s the particular nature of the crash, which came out of our first ever period of prosperity and revealed it to be a mirage.”

“Capitalism is to Rooney’s young women what Catholicism was to Joyce’s young men, a rotten national faith to contend with,” wrote one reviewer. Rooney is happy with that. For all her fascination with the human condition, with the pain and pleasures of the romantic merry-go-round, one thing’s for sure: “As a writer in Dublin it’s hard not to think about property.”

Conversations With Friends and Normal People are published by Faber (£8.99, £14.99) To order a copy for £7.91 or £10.49 go to guardianbookshop.com or call 0330 333 6846 Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99-------------------'Will I have existed?' The unprecedented plan to move an Arctic city






The world’s biggest iron ore mine is about to swallow the Swedish city of Kiruna. The company’s answer? Move the city

The crack appeared a few years ago, and has been creeping towards the town of Kiruna ever since.

“The mines are underneath us,” says Göran Cars. It’s early afternoon but the sun is already setting behind the mountain, colouring the clouds and outlining the town’s most prominent feature: two huge smokestacks. “And you can see the direction of the cracks – coming from the mine, and going straight up to the city centre.”

The mine, Kiirunavaara, is the reason this Swedish town of roughly 20,000 people deep in northern Lapland exists at all. It is the world’s largest iron ore mine, and it dominates both economically and visually, the smokestacks sending up twin plumes of black smoke from the denuded mountain like a kind of Arctic Mordor.

Over a century, the miners have tunnelled so deep into the earth – 2km at some points – that they have now literally undermined the town. The caverns are causing subsidence, weakening the structure of the buildings, and opening a great crack in the earth itself, which grows wider and several metres closer to the city every year. Kiruna is about to be swallowed by the very mine that gave it life.

So, in 2004, a plan was hatched. Luossavaara-Kiirunavaara AB (LKAB), the gigantic state-owned company that operates the mine, would simply move the city – houses and all.

It identified a condemned zone threatened by the growing sinkhole, and gave everyone living there three choices: LKAB would move you to a new apartment, buy you out at market rate plus 25%, or, if feasible, load your house on to a flatbed lorry and move it to the new city.

It was Cars who was given the responsibility to plan that new city.

“The basic idea here was to have a town square, because the present town doesn’t have a town square,” Cars said last week at the ribbon-cutting for City Hall, the first building in the new Kiruna. A very modern and very gold building designed by the Danish architects Henning Larsen, its most notable feature is that it has an art gallery built into it – the new Konstmuseet i Norr – a rectangular structure that squats inside the atrium like a cube of potato wrapped in smoked salmon.

Currently, City Hall sits more or less alone in what feels like the middle of nowhere. In fact the site was the former city dump, and then a succession of factories and junkyards known locally as Death Valley. But if Cars is to be believed, by no later than 1 September 2020 there will be an entire town on this spot.

The plans show mixed-use commercial and residential buildings, cinemas, libraries and hotels, radiating in broad avenues from City Hall – and all of it built at the kind of super-dense scale you expect in a capital city, not a sprawling town 100 miles north of the Arctic Circle.

The scale of the project is unprecedented. Several dozen buildings will be moved by a specially assembled team of experts who have become so good at their jobs that Cars claims it’s now usually cheaper to move a home than to demolish and rebuild. The huge wooden church will be hoisted and moved; other buildings, such as the current city hall and the railway station, will be stripped of aesthetic elements, including lampposts and iron railings, to be incorporated into new structures.

LKAB, the mining company, is such a big deal in Sweden that it's hard to really be critical enough Alice Bah Kuhnke, minister for culture and democracy

And all of it will be paid for by LKAB. It’s not exactly generosity that is motivating the company. “The law is crystal clear,” Cars says. “The mine is required by Swedish national law to compensate for the structural damage it has caused.”

It’s also about survival. “Part of Kiruna’s absolute problem is that women have been moving away from the town while men have been staying on,” Cars says. He tells of efforts to attract foreign women to marry mineworkers. “Russians were popular. You had ads: ‘Wealthy miners looking for female company’, he says, adding: “This was some time ago.”

The deeper the mine, the more expensive it becomes to remove the iron – and the number of jobs is dropping, too, due to automation. In a globalised age it is increasingly hard to convince young people with university degrees to live deep inside the Arctic Circle.

“Our employees live here,” says Johan Mäkitaavola, project manager of LKAB. “I live in Kiruna. I want to have a nice city to live in. I hope my children will stay here or at least come back when they have studied. We need educated people to move to Kiruna and work.”

To survive, the city needs to diversify. It is already home to a budding space industry, and in the winter there are direct flights from Tokyo and Shanghai for sightseers eager to glimpse the northern lights. It remains impossible, however, to imagine Kiruna without LKAB, and vice versa.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest An artist’s impression of a shopping street in the new Kiruna city centre.

“It’s a big deal,” says Alice Bah Kuhnke, the Swedish minister for culture and democracy, who attended the opening ceremony along with the king of Sweden. “Big. For Swedes, LKAB has almost been part of our DNA – they are so important to the finances of the Swedish state. So for us that’s a really challenging thought, because since it’s such a big deal it’s hard as a politician and as a Swede to really be critical enough.”

Part of that means acknowledging an inconvenient truth – the fact that the new town sits on the territory of the Sami, the indigenous people of Lapland, whose reindeer herding is frequently disrupted by mining. The Sami convene their Swedish parliament in Kiruna – though you wouldn’t know it from the opening ceremony.

“Where’s the Sami flag? Where’s the Sami representative [on stage]?” says Carola Grahn, a Sami artist whose work is exhibited in the new gallery. “We have a Sami parliament but the head of the Sami parliament wasn’t invited.”

“They just don’t need to give a fuck so they don’t give a fuck,” says Nils Johan Labba with a shrug. A traditional craftsman with an 18-month waiting list for his knives, he is also a member of the Sami parliament. “We have a reindeer community here, this is their moving territory. Or it was – everything changed with the city. Kiruna as a city doesn’t take much consideration about Sami people or Sami lifestyles.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The indigenous Sami people are traditional reindeer herders – an activity frequently interrupted by mining. Photograph: Grahame Soden/Guardian Community

A sense of betrayal is rooted in the Sami experience in Kiruna; several Sami told me versions of an apocryphal story about a Sami man discovering a special heavy stone, and being tricked by a Swedish prospector into revealing the location of the iron ore deposits.

The company seems exasperated by the issue. “They have their interest in this land and we have ours,” says Mäkitaavola. “So it’s a problem. It’s not easy.”

Stefan Sydberg, Kiruna’s deputy mayor, acknowledges the Sami people’s interests must be respected. “But moving the city centre to this area has the least impact, because this is an old industrial area. There haven’t been any reindeer in this area since before the city transformation.

“We can’t just sit and say we can’t do anything because we have the reindeer herders. We have to evolve as a city. Because they prosper from that as well.”

The impression Kiruna’s officials clearly want to give is of a kind of northern Swedish pragmatism. The city wouldn’t exist without the mine, so it had to be moved; yes, of course that is expensive; true, it’s Sami territory, but what isn’t? Up here, you simply get the job done.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Kirunavaara mine dominates the city, both economically and visually. Photograph: Chris Michael for the Guardian

The townspeople are less sanguine. Jan Lindgren is the third-generation owner of Centrum JW Lindgren clothing store (“They always film our sign when they shoot something in Kiruna – the sign and the mountain”) and speaks with a mixture of anxiety and resignation about having to move in 2022. “At first we were negative,” he says. “But we thought it would be very good if they do the right things from the beginning. If they do what they say they will do.”

He’ll be renting in the new town, and the shop will be smaller. “There’s a lot of history here,” he says. “But we have planned for 10 or 12 years. We discussed. Would it be the same views? We can see the mountains on a clear day here, but not in the new place. That’s sad.”

As well as being less picturesque, the new city centre is colder: flatter, windier and more exposed, though presumably the new buildings will mitigate that barrenness.

Birgitta Dahlberg owns one of the apartments being destroyed. “I have to go,” says the retail worker with a shrug. “I’m really hopeful I’ll get somewhere to stay, and that I can choose from old apartments [vacated by people moving to newer ones]. I don’t wanna move. I have a great flat. I just bought it! But maybe it’ll be better in the new place. Who knows?”

There is a stepped system of rent increases over eight years to gradually accustom tenants to the new payments, capped at 20% above their former rate, but Dahlberg says many people on low incomes don’t have any room in their budgets. “It’s sad. There’s a lot of uncertainty. There are so many questions on our mind. Where will I live? Can I afford it? Will I have existed?” Her past will be wiped away. The city of her childhood will be gone, demolished by bulldozers. “You might just see a tree you planted, and nothing else. You can’t think about it, it’s too much – you have to keep focused on the day to day.”

Mixed feelings abound. “It’s complicated. Even Sami people work in the mine sometimes,” says Grahn. “So it’s not simple to take a stand.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The clocktower from the old City Hall was moved to the new location. Photograph: Peter Rosén/LapplandMedia

But she says it remains important to show that there is more to Kiruna than the wishes of the company. One of her artworks displayed at the gallery is a bouncy castle, shaped and painted to resemble a mountain. A window beside it has a view of an actual mountain, Luossavaara – a disused mine – as well as tiny mountains of rubble: the first construction sites of the new Kiruna buildings. “I don’t think I need to explain the sadness,” she says, and mentions another mining project – this one in Jokkmokk, in Sami territory south of Kiruna.

“My cousin, who’s a reindeer herder, said it very well. He was like, ‘Where they want to drill the hole, that area’s not really our most prominent [territory]. But we have to, now, say No. Because when the mine starts to make money, we can’t stop it.

“I mean, look how right he is,” she says, her eyes wide as she looks out past her inflatable mountain to the actual one. “They’re moving a whole town.”

Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to join the discussion, and explore our archive here-------------------Let’s be honest about what’s really driving Brexit: bigotry | Matthew d’Ancona






Today, I shall go to the German embassy in London to sign the necessary forms so that my half-German sons may apply for dual citizenship. My father and one of my brothers have already been granted Maltese passports (my family hails from the tiny Mediterranean island). I am glad that such options are available, as a Brexit of unknowable character approaches, and at a time when the prime minister sees fit to label those of us with funny continental names “queue-jumpers”. It is fair to say that, in the circumstances, we are fortunate.

Yet I think it is time to be a bit more honest and plain-speaking about those circumstances. For the most part, the debate about Brexit since the 2016 referendum has been framed primarily in economic terms. The leavers have spoken excitedly about the free-trade bonanza that supposedly lies the other side of 29 March. Remainers point out that Britain is cutting itself off from the largest single market in the world.

But this to-and-fro is a polite fiction draped over a much uglier reality, and one that has little to do with GDP. I keep hearing that it is rude and counterproductive to suggest that xenophobia played a significant part in the 2016 result, and it is certainly true that such accusations should never be made lightly.

From no confidence to no deal, the choice for MPs should May’s plan fail Read more

All the same: there are moments when politeness is not always the highest priority, and reticence more closely resembles cowardice than civility. As Clint Eastwood’s Dirty Harry reminds us: a man’s got to know his limitations – and I’m afraid I’ve reached mine. I’m done with the whole pretence that the argument about Brexit is, and has always been, a subtle jurisprudential discussion about sovereignty, or an exciting debate about the business plan for UK plc.

Look at the evidence. In June 2017, a report collated from the British Social Attitudes survey showed that the most significant factor in the leave vote was anxiety about the number of people coming to the UK. A comprehensive study published by Nuffield College in April drew similar conclusions about the salience of immigration in attitudes to Brexit. “Take back control” was indeed the slogan of the leave campaign, but it was “control” with one purpose, above all others, at its heart.

Which is why Theresa May was so uncompromising last week when urged by cabinet colleagues that it was not too late to reconsider the impact of tighter immigration policy on British companies. An end to free movement, the prime minister informed them, was a non-negotiable feature of the deal that she will first put to the Commons on 4 December.

It is for this reason, too, that she is uninterested in the thoughtful proposal by the Conservative backbencher Nick Boles that she should contemplate a Norway-style interim arrangement with the EU, if MPs reject her agreement with Brussels. The Norwegian model preserves freedom of movement, which, for May, is the most garish of red lines.

I think something profound, unsettling but still underexplored, underpins this scale of priorities: a fundamental change that needs to be understood outside the day-to-day disasters of this useless government and even of the Brexit process itself.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Theresa May at the G20 leaders summit in Buenos Aires. Photograph: Marcos Brindicci/Reuters

For decades there was something close to a political consensus that the most important metric was economic prosperity. A wealthy nation was essential both to the aspirations of individual households and the funding of public services. The Tories might give greater weight to the former, Labour to the latter. Margaret Thatcher and Gordon Brown had radically different visions of social justice and collective responsibility, of the relationship between taxation and public spending. But they were as one in their conviction that nothing much was possible without a strong economy.

Brexit is both symptom and cause of a breakdown in this consensus. It can no longer be taken for granted that senior politicians, or the voters themselves, will automatically and reflexively put national wealth first.

As long ago as January 2014, Nigel Farage was explicit about this: “If you said to me, would I like to see over the next 10 years a further 5 million people come into Britain and if that happened we’d all be slightly richer, I’d say, I’d rather we weren’t slightly richer.”

Last week, the Bank of England warned that the UK was courting the worst recession since the 1930s. Philip Hammond was forced to concede that “the economy will be slightly smaller in the prime minister’s preferred version of the future partnership”, while the Treasury’s newly released forecasts suggest that the UK economy would be 9.3% smaller 15 years after a no-deal Brexit.

Of course, such statistics are now routinely dismissed as the latest iteration of “project fear”. But the more intriguing (and alarming) point is that so many senior figures in the political class responded with such comparative calm to these appalling prognoses. We have reached the point where, to an extraordinary extent, the implementation of the 2016 referendum result trumps all else.

Why so? Because, as Farage declared with more candour than most mainstream politicians can yet muster, culture is nudging old-fashioned political economy out of its prime spot. Immigration is now the gravitational centre of the whole debate: a debate much less about national wealth or national sovereignty than national identity.

Behind closed doors, Labour inches closer to a second referendum Read more

Beneath all the talk of “control” and “global Britain”, there is the germ of an extremely unpleasant nativism. Again, we pesky centrists are told to be quiet and to heed the concerns of those who have been “left behind”. But since there is not a shred of respectable evidence that immigration has had more than a marginal impact upon public service capacity, wage levels or net welfare costs, I am forced to conclude that there is now a sufficiency of Britons who just don’t much like people of foreign extraction, and certainly don’t want many more of them around the place.

So often one hears that the British people “were not consulted” about immigration levels. To which the answer is: oh yes you damn well were. Every time you insisted on a properly staffed NHS, on social care that was halfway decent, on a service economy that worked, on affordable decorators, on your Tesco and Amazon deliveries arriving on time. Each time you took that landscape for granted, you were complicit in the immigration policy that preceded the Brexit vote.

We live in a world defined by the economic, social and cultural interdependence of nation states. And those who promise that leaving the EU will deliver “control” are really promising something quite specific: a social and cultural reboot. As well as being morally contemptible, of course, this is also a complete impossibility. But those who pose as our leaders have allowed this absurd and horrible vision of Britain’s future to take root. Let us be honest about what this is all about. And then let those who are responsible take full ownership of whatever consequences lie ahead.

• Matthew d’Ancona is a Guardian columnist-------------------Ben Jennings on Theresa May's Brexit deal – cartoon






What term do you want to search? Search with google-------------------The Guardian view on parliament’s Brexit debate: time to choose | Editorial






The televised debate that Britain needs is not a joust between Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn but the one that actually begins in the House of Commons on Tuesday. This will be the most consequential parliamentary event for a generation, and perhaps since Britain joined the old European community in 1973. British politics have been building up to this since the 2016 referendum and ever since parliament insisted on having a “meaningful” vote on the deal. Now we are on the eve of that. The voting at the end of this five-day debate on 11 December will decide whether, and if so on what terms, Britain departs from the European Union or whether, perhaps, the issue will be returned to the voters for another referendum and for a possible democratic reversal of Brexit.

The question that faces MPs is whether the EU withdrawal agreement and the declaration on the future framework of relations, both of which were signed off by the EU and the UK last month, are an acceptable basis for Brexit to go ahead. In this newspaper’s view they are not. The Guardian opposed and opposes withdrawal. The declaration, in particular, is simply too vague a prospectus for relations with the EU to be an acceptable basis for Brexit. It does nothing to protect the economy through commitments to remain in the single market and customs union. It offers no guarantee that jobs, interests and regulatory regimes are protected from the fanatics and fantasists who want to drive wages and standards down and turn our backs on Europe.

The events of the next week will be increasingly fast-moving. The precise political options and effects of the votes on 11 December will be difficult to judge until the day itself. At the outset, however, there seem currently to be four main options: no deal at all, Mrs May’s deal, a softer form of Brexit deal, and a second referendum. Of these, two are clearly ruled out. No pro-European and no social justice supporter should countenance the multiple risks and damage of no deal under any circumstances, while Mrs May’s deal is, as stated above, too full of dangerous holes.

The two options that deserve more thought by MPs are a softer deal and a second referendum. The choice will depend, in part, on how the domestic Brexit endgame evolves over the next week. The way the Commons votes on Tuesday to sequence the different amendments to the May deal will have significant consequences. Given the vital importance of Britain’s relations with Europe, and the existence of the 2016 vote to leave, it is important that this hung parliament comes together across party lines as much as it can.

The most viable form of softer Brexit on offer now would have Britain leaving the EU on the basis of Mrs May’s withdrawal agreement. But it would also specify that, at the end of the planned withdrawal transition, the UK would rejoin the European Free Trade Association (of which Norway is the most important current member) and join the European Economic Area and the single market. In addition, under this “Norway plus” option, the UK would remain in a customs union with the EU. Economic integration and freedom of movement would continue, largely on EU terms, but Britain would have left the EU. This would draw the sting of the Northern Ireland border argument. It would leave Liam Fox’s Department for International Trade largely redundant.

A second referendum has growing support outside parliament and backing within it. It is the only route open to MPs to keep the UK in the EU. Yet that outcome is not certain. Leave could win again. Either way it is a daunting prospect. It would deepen bitter national arguments still further. It would demand a far better and more reasoned pro-European campaign. But we can see more starkly now what Brexit would actually mean. If MPs do not support the May deal or the Norway-plus option, there are clear circumstances in which a second referendum becomes the only supportable alternative to no deal.-------------------Trump or George HW Bush? America must decide which vision of the world it wants | Michael H Fuchs






The question before America today is whether President Donald Trump’s vision of the world, or that of former President George HW Bush, will prevail.

President Bush helped build the infrastructure of a more peaceful world. When he entered the White House, the United States and the Soviet Union were in a nuclear standoff. When he left office, the cold war was over. The Soviet Union was gone. Europe was reuniting. The United States had brought the world together to confront aggression by Iraq. President Bush’s world was imperfect, but he set it on the right course.

Today, the world he built is in peril. The passing of President Bush while Trump was in Argentina for the G20 summit could hardly be more illustrative of how a hopeful world seems to be slipping away.

Watching the G20, two different visions of the world – the world of Trump and the world of President Bush – were on display.

Trump not only takes the side of autocrats – he also undermines democratic allies.

Trump wants to take us back to a world dominated by autocrats. A world where might makes right, where states do not believe in international cooperation, and where human rights are confined to the thoughts of philosophers. A growing number of world leaders share this vision. President Vladimir Putin leads a Russia that invades other countries. President Xi Jinping runs a China that bullies its neighbors in Asia while pursuing an ethnic cleansing campaign against its Uighur population. The viral video of the brotherly embrace between Putin and Saudi Arabiancrown prince Mohammed bin Salman at the G20 exemplifies a growing sense of autocratic impunity.

Trump not only takes the side of autocrats – he also undermines democratic allies. He regularly picks fights with America’s friends, from his G7 spat with Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau to criticism of German chancellor Angela Merkel over immigration to his feud with French president Emmanuel Macron on a trip to France. When Prince Mohammed murders a US-based journalist, Trump takes the side of the Saudi autocrat over seeking justice for Jamal Khashoggi. Trump supports Putin over his own advisers, whether it’s on Russia’s interference in US elections or Ukraine.

Trump’s envy of autocrats extends to his actions at home – attacking the media, the judiciary, law enforcement, and talking about jailing his political enemies. Trump even openly admires how the brutal North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un “speaks and his people sit up at attention … I want my people to do the same.” Trump’s actions are undermining American democracy and resulting in a more dangerous world.

Sign up to receive the latest US opinion pieces every weekday

On the other side are the democrats. From Merkel to Trudeau to President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, leaders of the world’s democracies are standing up for the very things that have made the world a more peaceful place. Taking action on climate change. Pushing back against Putin’s aggression in Ukraine. Speaking out in support of human rights.

But Democrats are on the back foot. Some countries that have traditionally upheld democratic norms are now represented by more populist leaders, such as Trump and Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy. Brazil elected right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro, who openly derides democratic ideals. The United Kingdom is mired in a slow-motion national catastrophe as it withdraws from the European Union. Democratic erosion is on the march from Hungary to Turkey, the Philippines to Poland. And without American leadership, the world’s democracies are struggling to unite in the face of the autocratic tide.

Luckily, Trump is not America. And today, voices – from new members of Congress to a growing chorus of grassroots organizations – are rising to push back against Trump’s dictatorial style at home and his recklessness abroad.

Voices are rising to push back against Trump’s dictatorial style at home and his recklessness abroad.

When America leads, it can achieve amazing things, from the creation of the United Nations to the reunification of Europe, peace in the Balkans to the Paris climate agreement. This was President Bush’s vision, as he put it when rallying the world against Iraq in 1990: “The crisis in the Persian Gulf… offers a rare moment of opportunity to move toward an historic period of cooperation… a new world order… Today that new world is struggling to be born… A world where the rule of law supplants the rule of the jungle. A world in which nations recognize the shared responsibility for freedom and justice. A world where the strong respect the rights of the weak.”

Today, that new world is still struggling to be born, and the fate of this vision may very well rest on what President Bush prided most, service to others: “I have spoken of a Thousand Points of Light, or all the community of organizations that are spread like stars throughout the Nation, doing good… The old ideas are new again because they’re not old, they are timeless: duty, sacrifice, commitment, and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part and pitching in.”

As a progressive, I disagreed with President Bush’s politics and many of his policies. As a foreign policy professional, I am in awe of his achievements. As a public servant, I am inspired by his service to his country. And as an American, I am proud he was my president.

In these troubled times, let us not discard ideas of global rules and norms like freedom and justice as “old ideas” – they are not old, they are timeless. America must continue to fight for them, pick up President Bush’s mantle, and spark a thousand points of light as we build a new world.-------------------Could cinema play a starring role in journalism’s defence? | Paul Chadwick






I asked a few cinephiles to name some popular movies that had raised public awareness about an important issue. Before we come to their suggestions, some context. The stories of journalism and of democracy are entwined. Agitation for universal suffrage, pressure for better representation, coverage of campaigns, scrutiny of vote counts and a chronicle of the action and inaction of those who win elections – all are threads in the development of journalism, just as the details form the fabric of democratic governance itself, in every country where it survives.

Peterloo shaped modern Britain, as much as any king or queen did | John Harris Read more

At this time of challenge to journalism – commercially and otherwise from social media; rhetorically and otherwise from some politicians – it might help for the story of journalism/democracy to be told afresh, and in a way that reminds us of the indispensability of journalism to democracy. Cultures are supple. They can inform, persuade, shift opinion by means other than headlines and bulletins. A new film, Peterloo, made me wonder whether the links between journalism and democracy might be reaffirmed for our times through a movie, a really good and popularly accessible movie or TV series.

Peterloo is not that, though it is in many respects fine film-making. It tells the story of how democratic sentiments simmered in industrialising, post-French revolution England, and it climaxes at a reform rally at Manchester in 1819 that was broken up with lethal violence by the authorities. The film touches on the journalism of the day, but it is not the focus. Near the end the reporters disperse to spread their accounts of the repression they have witnessed. We don’t see the outcome, but we can anticipate the role newspapers played in the years that led to the reform acts of 1832, which expanded the franchise, though not to those without property, or to women. Democracy is a long, unfinished story.

Peterloo director calls for 1819 massacre to be taught in UK schools Read more

John Edward Taylor, who was among those to report Peterloo, founded the Manchester Guardian in 1821. Along with other newspaper voices – including the Observer, established in 1791 – the Guardian helped to spread the information and arguments that pressed reluctant authorities to take important democratic steps. The paintings and prints of those days show the power and shared excitement of news circulating. The illiterate gather to hear others read aloud. Laughing faces gaze together through the windows of shops displaying the latest satirical prints. I hope a film or TV producer (the BBC? Netflix?) will tap the talent – and the costume department – and tell some of that great story, mixing the love interest, over-reach, courage, obduracy, wit, frailty, redemption and other ingredients into a popular success.

Asked for examples of movies (and TV) that affected public opinion, film buffs mentioned: To Kill a Mockingbird, confronting the US with its racial prejudice; Cathy Come Home, homelessness in the UK; The China Syndrome and Silkwood, the nuclear power industry; and Born Free, the environment.

Other nominations are welcome. Send them to guardian.readers@theguardian.com

• Paul Chadwick is the Guardian’s readers’ editor-------------------All change at the Daily Mail as Mark Carney escapes a bashing | Jane Martinson






Anyone looking for signs of change at the Daily Mail should study its reaction to the Bank of England’s Brexit analysis last week as much as its support for the prime minister. And particularly its description of the Bank’s governor, Mark Carney.

Pro-Brexit papers greeted the Bank’s warnings with outrage – “Carney unleashes Project Hysteria,” splashed the Telegraph; “Carnage,” shrieked the Sun. The first quote in the Boris-backing Telegraph story was from Jacob Rees-Mogg, who called Carney – who has never stood for public office – “a failed second-rate Canadian politician” who was trying to talk down the pound.

Central bankers are increasingly worried that the rise of populism threatens their hard-fought independence, and the reaction to a series of forecasts will do little to diminish that fear.

BBC in hot water over debate – and an unlikely pastor Read more

Yet some comfort could be found in the Mail, which chose to splash on an exclusive that the cabinet minister Andrea Leadsom would back the government’s Brexit deal. The last paragraph on the front page said Carney had “further electrified the debate by issuing a dramatic warning about the dangers of leaving without a deal”.

Inside, a spread headlined “Brexit doomsday storm” ran alongside a reasonable piece of analysis by the veteran City editor Alex Brummer, who wrote that the Bank’s “apocalyptic” report “might make MPs see sense”.

“It would have been a dereliction of duty by the government and the Bank if they failed to tell citizens of the worst-case scenarios should we leave,” he wrote.

Mail insiders see this lack of personal mud-slinging as the strongest indicator of the the “kindlier, gentler” regime under the new editor, Geordie Greig, contrasting with that of his predecessor, Paul Dacre.

When Carney appears before the Treasury select committee on Tuesday he could repeat his argument that it is his job to stress-test an economy faced with its biggest change in nearly half a century. Or he could say that for voters and politicians it doesn’t seem to matter what economists think any more. Nowadays, it seems, it’s not the economy, stupid, but the politics.-------------------Spurs face FA inquiry after fan throws banana skin at Arsenal’s Aubameyang






• Away fans greet striker’s goal celebration with hail of objects • Seven arrests, two of them Arsenal fans who lit smoke canisters

Tottenham face a Football Association investigation after one of their supporters was arrested for throwing a banana skin at Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang during Arsenal’s 4-2 derby win at the Emirates Stadium.

Arsenal’s Aubameyang seizes moment with all-action display against Spurs Read more

The Arsenal striker had scored the first of his two goals from the penalty spot when he ran to celebrate in front of the travelling supporters. A host of projectiles were thrown at him, with still photography showing that a banana skin was among them.

CCTV footage was used to confirm the identify of the fan who threw it and he was arrested. The Metropolitan Police said afterwards that a total of seven arrests were made – six for public order offences, of which at least two were Arsenal fans who lit smoke canisters during the match.

The FA will investigate and Tottenham released a statement that condemned the supporter who threw the banana skin. “Behaviour such as this is completely unacceptable and the supporter in question will be issued with a ban,” a spokesman said.

It was a fiery game that also featured a mass confrontation between players from both sides, including substitutes, after Eric Dier’s equaliser for 1-1. The Arsenal substitutes who were warming up nearby took exception to how Dier celebrated, with Stephan Lichtsteiner appearing to tap him. Players converged from all angles and projectiles were thrown by the Arsenal fans.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The banana is clearly visible in mid-air in this photo. It was thrown after Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang had given Arsenal a 1-0 lead. Photograph: BPI/Rex/Shutterstock

The Tottenham manager, Mauricio Pochettino, ran up the touchline to act as a peacemaker while his assistant, Jesús Pérez, was involved in a furious row with the Arsenal substitute Mattéo Guendouzi. Dier was booked and he said: “I had my back to it all so I’m not too sure what happened. But this is football. It’s a derby. Football is all about emotion and I don’t understand how I can get a yellow card in that situation. It baffles me because, if you take the emotion out of football, you’re going to destroy the game for everyone.

Lucas Torreira caps Arsenal’s comeback in 4-2 derby win over 10-man Spurs Read more

“The ref said he gave me the yellow card because it was because of me that the whole thing started. If you watch it, we’re celebrating. I don’t leave the pitch at any point and some of their players that are on the bench come to us. Their players approached us. I don’t know what’s wrong with it. But it doesn’t matter. It wasn’t because of that we lost.”

Pochettino said: “At 1-1 it was a massive fight there but I didn’t know what was going on in that moment. And in the moment that I arrived, it was all relaxed, calm. I didn’t know what happened but sometimes these situations happen. My intention was always to put calm.

“I don’t know if it was the celebration of Dier. I don’t know what upset some people there or some players that were doing the warm-up. I really don’t know and I didn’t ask at half-time. I think the cameras are there and we will see what is going on.”

The Fiver: sign up and get our daily football email.

It was Arsenal’s latest victory coming from behind under Unai Emery – a testament to their new-found conviction – although there was intrigue regarding Mesut Özil, who was not included in the squad because of a back problem.

The club described it as a back spasm and noted it was something that had afflicted Özil before this season – most notably when it led to him missing the Fulham game in October – while Emery said it was “back ache” which made it sound less serious.

Emery was asked when Özil had felt the problem. “I don’t know,” he replied. Was Özil even at the stadium? “I don’t know,” Emery said.-------------------Tyson Fury comes out of Wilder contest a winner despite contested draw | Kevin Mitchell






Ultimately Tyson Fury did win. He could not beat the judges but he beat the odds of life. And, in one of the many interviews he gave after drawing with Deontay Wilder in Los Angeles on Saturday night, he laid out priorities that will always mean more to him than mere victory in a boxing match.

‘I’m not going to scream robbery’ – Fury relaxed about controversial Wilder decision Read more

As Dave Coldwell, who expertly guided Tony Bellew’s career, remarked on Twitter, Fury “might not have a belt with him when he comes back to the UK but he’ll feel like a champion when he walks the streets”.

Turning to his inquisitor’s camera in the corridors of the Staples Center – a venue more used to the quieter musings of basketball players – Fury spoke above the post-fight anger that had gathered on his behalf to address an audience with whom he shared a greater concern: “For all the people out there with mental health problems,” he said, “I did it for you guys.”

He could have spoken, too, to those suffering souls addicted to alcohol or drugs. Or the homeless, to whom he has pledged a lump of his estimated £8m earnings. He knew all these experiences. He would have a captive congregation, too, in the travelling community for whom he is king.

Deontay Wilder v Tyson Fury: WBC heavyweight championship – in pictures Read more

There is nothing about exclusion with which Fury is not achingly familiar. It is often said boxing is a sport for outsiders. Fury comes from outside the outsiders. He talks to and for people who will never be insiders. It is why he genuinely does not value money. The currency he deals in is loyalty – to his own.

Fury and Frank Warren gambled well in taking this fight when Anthony Joshua and Eddie Hearn did not like the numbers that Lou DiBella threw their way. They were playing a longer game and knew the pot would grow the longer a unification fight was allowed to simmer.

Play Video 1:33 'We both go home as winners': Wilder praises Fury after WBC heavyweight draw – video

Now, though, the calculations change. On this showing Joshua will be even more convinced he has the measure of Wilder – by name and nature – who boxed poorly, for the most part. As for Fury, however, those 12 quality rounds have brought him to a pitch of excellence nobody could have envisaged when he came back from his self-imposed longueur a year or so ago as a 28-stone drunk.

When Fury said before this fight that winning one of his titles back three years after beating Wladimir Klitschko would be “not much” in his restructured life, it was dismissed as the ramblings of a man who has struggled for a solid grip on reality for years. Surely, he was repeatedly asked, it would be the most heroic effort for him to conquer the American ogre, who had knocked out 39 of his 40 opponents and whom he acknowledged was the most dangerous puncher in the sport.

No, he insisted. Once you have been to the top of the mountain you have seen the ultimate view. You’ve done it, he said. Doing it again could never be the same. Except this was a different mountain, a lean, muscled brain-buster, a fighter who could barely contain his own power. But Fury did not view his task as survival. He would win through self-belief, talent and bloody-mindedness.

Sign up to The Recap, our weekly email of editors’ picks.

Despite his best efforts – without argument reaching the high-point of his skills – the officials wrenched matters from his control more effectively than Wilder threatened to, outside the two knockdowns. That the British judge, Phil Edwards, concluded Fury’s dominance for all but two – or maybe three or four – of the 12 rounds justified a call of 113-113 is a mystery. But more problematic was the card of Mexico’s Alejandro Rochin, whose view of the first four rounds was at odds with nearly everyone who put a pair of eyes on it. He gave them all to Wilder. For those who have not seen the fight, it is worth a rewind.

Deontay Wilder retains WBC heavyweight title over Tyson Fury after split draw Read more

So, the pain was multiplied. Disappointment joined the fleeting physical bruises of absorbing the most potent leather in the business, the second knockdown looking as conclusive as any Wilder has inflicted on his victims. But, from a state of near paralysis on his back after shipping a long right and a chilling left hook, Fury rose like a mummy from a crypt. He threw off his bandages and stomped after his tormentor, briefly threatening to rip his head from his shoulders.

Wilder was mightily relieved when the final bell sounded. And, of course, the rancour was forgotten. The manufactured animus was almost the most unbelievable component of the deal, one struck in five minutes, according to Fury.

Both parties said a rematch is more likely than either Fury-Joshua or Joshua-Wilder. Perhaps. Nevertheless Wilder can thank his fists and those 10-8 rounds for keeping him in the picture at all. His connections might be talking up a rematch but he knows he has a lot of work to do if he is not to endure a repeat of those frustrations against an opponent whose style could hardly be more nightmarish for him.-------------------Jordan Pickford apologises after mistake leads to Liverpool winner






Jordan Pickford apologised to Everton fans for the “freak incident” that gifted Liverpool victory in the 96th minute of the Merseyside derby and sent Jürgen Klopp sprinting across the Anfield pitch in celebration.

Last-gasp derby error ensures away day blues continue to haunt Everton Read more

Klopp said he apologised to Marco Silva for his wild reaction to Divock Origi’s dramatic winner – a claim denied by the Everton manager – after the England goalkeeper turned Virgil van Dijk’s miscued volley back into play via his crossbar and on to the Belgium international’s head to score. A close-fought derby had seemed destined for a draw until Pickford’s error allowed Liverpool to return to two points behind leaders Manchester City.

Everton’s goalkeeper was devastated but insisted he would react positively. “I think it is the Everton luck when we come to Anfield,” said Pickford. “It was a freak one, really. It had hit the bar twice and I tried to flick it over. The ball spun and as I tried to flick it over, my hand hit the bar. It’s unfortunate but I am strong mentally.

“I just want to say sorry to the Everton fans. I think you could see our progression as a group, the chances we created and the football we played. That’s a positive but what can I do? There is always a case as a goalkeeper if you make an error it will lead to a goal. Unfortunately, it has been me today but I will be ready for Newcastle on Wednesday. We know we held our own against a good Liverpool side for 96 minutes. I will say sorry to the Everton fans again because I know how much it means to them. As players, we know how much it means to us. You make mistakes every now and again. It’s not something you can learn and train and get better from. It’s just a freak incident.”

The Fiver: sign up and get our daily football email.

Liverpool’s manager sprinted across the pitch to embrace Alisson after his free-kick to Trent Alexander-Arnold led to the winning goal. “Immediately after the game I apologised to Marco Silva when we spoke to each other,” said Klopp. “I told him how much I respect his work, because it’s incredible what he has done with that team. They are a really outstanding side.

Divock Origi’s bizarre late winner for Liverpool breaks Everton hearts Read more

“Derbies are always difficult games but this was completely different to the last few years. What can I say about it? I didn’t want to run. It was not in my plan. I didn’t want to run to Ali, I couldn’t stop obviously. Not cool, but it happened. The more important things happened during the 95 minutes. Again, all my respect for Everton, really good. Both teams delivered a proper fight, a proper derby from the first second.”

But Silva, who described Liverpool as “lucky, lucky, lucky”, rejected Klopp’s claim about the apology. “He didn’t apologise to me,” said the Everton manager. “To be honest I didn’t see it, I don’t know what he did. I don’t think he expected anything like that either. It was a lucky way to win but that’s football. I don’t say it was a lack of respect because I didn’t see it. Maybe when I see that moment I can say more about the situation.”-------------------Paul Sherwen, cycling broadcaster and former rider, dies aged 62






The death of the respected cycling broadcaster and former professional rider Paul Sherwen has been confirmed at the age of 62.

Born in Lancashire, Sherwen made his name during the 1980s, competing seven times in the Tour de France and twice becoming British national champion. He later moved into broadcasting and worked alongside Phil Liggett for Channel 4’s coverage of the Tour for several years before moving to NBC Sports in America. The 2018 Tour, in which Geraint Thomas won his first title, was the 33rd Sherwen had commentated on.

Neal Rogers (@nealrogers) Cycling commentator and former professional Paul Sherwen has died at age 62. I don’t know specifics, other than he was in Uganda, where he lived and had stake in mining businesses. An extremely warm guy and a true gentleman from the first time I met him to the last time I saw him pic.twitter.com/P05yiang3H

“We were truly saddened by the news of the passing of @PaulSherwen,” read a message from British Cycling on Twitter. “A former national champion and a great voice of our sport, our thoughts are with his family and friends at this time.”

Team Dimension Data added: “We’d like to extend our deepest condolences to the family and friends of Paul Sherwen. His was a voice that brought the joys of our sport to life for millions of fans around the world and he will be deeply missed.”-------------------Manchester City’s Georgia Stanway inflicts first WSL defeat on Arsenal






A Georgia Stanway double and a tactical masterclass from Nick Cushing, who said Manchester City now have a “fighter’s chance” at the title, led the home side to become the first team to take points off an injury-hit Arsenal and closed the gap at the top of the Women’s Super League to three points.

Manchester City v Arsenal: Women's Super League – live! Read more

“In this isolated period nine points is very difficult, six would have still been a challenge, three and we’ve given ourselves a fighter’s chance,” the City manager said. “But it doesn’t mean anything. I remember eating my Christmas dinner last year and we were top of the league unbeaten, won every game, Continental Cup final, FA Cup semi-final, Champions League quarter-final and by the end of the season we took nothing.”

Arsenal struggled to assert themselves with the same swagger they have elsewhere this season. With their midfield architects Kim Little and Jordan Nobbs out with a fractured tibia and ruptured ACL respectively, Joe Montemurro was forced to drop Danielle van de Donk much deeper and hand a full debut to the 17-year-old Paige Bailey-Gayle.

“I’ll never make excuses for the injuries; that’s the squad I put out, that’s the squad that represented Arsenal,” said Montemurro. “We couldn’t break them down and every time we got the opportunity to pull the trigger we didn’t.

“We lacked that quality in front of goal. They were camped on their 18-yard line and the midfield line was dropping off. We couldn’t find any space.”

The warning signs were there early on. England’s Under-20 World Cup bronze medalist Stanway raced through the middle in the sixth minute but Leah Williamson recovered enough to put her off and her tame shot went into the arms of Pauline Peyraud-Magnin. With Tessa Wullaert and Jill Scott combining neatly on the right for City’s brightest play, it felt as if the breakthrough would come from there. Instead a testing Demi Stokes cross from a rare break on the right landed at the feet of Stanway who fired City in front from point-blank range.

The Fiver: sign up and get our daily football email.

With 15 minutes of the half left the Gunners began to claw their way into the game. The league’s top scorer, Viv Miedema, who was playing deeper and deeper, won the ball on the edge of the City box and slipped in Beth Mead, Arsenal’s brightest outlet. She twisted past two blue shirts before laying off to Katie McCabe, who rattled the crossbar from a tight angle.

Shortly afterwards Mead cut inside and shot from 30 yards, forcing Ellie Roebuck to tip the ball over the bar. With Arsenal chasing the game and the City captain, Steph Houghton, and Jen Beattie nullifying the threat of Miedema, who has scored or assisted 14 goals in her last six games, Arsenal got scrappy. Miedema tried her luck on the left, evading two challenges before handing over to Mead, who shot from an acute angle. Roebuck pushed the ball into the air before catching it ahead of the incoming Van de Donk.

In terms of the outcome it was as close as Arsenal got. A wonderful ball from Keira Walsh sent Stanway away on a solo run on the right; she cut inside and beat two defenders before slotting into the bottom corner to trigger rapturous celebrations in the stands and on the pitch.

“I can’t do much more than I’m doing and hopefully he sees that,” said Stanway of Phil Neville, when asked about her World Cup chances after her two goals in front of the national manager. “But at the end of the day I’m still young [19], I have loads of time and there’s massive competition. It would be a dream come true to go but I’m at the start of my journey.”

Everton gain first win with derby success

A first win of the season for Everton, against Liverpool, kickstarted Willie Kirk’s tenure on Merseyside. Inessa Kaagman’s 30-yard shot gave the home side a sixth-minute lead before Jess Clarke equalised. However, Simone Magill sealed Everton’s win before the break.

Birmingham kept pace with Manchester City and Arsenal as goals from Lucy Staniforth and Charlie Wellings saw off Yeovil, despite Emily Syme’s late reply. West Ham leapfrogged Bristol City with a 1-0 win at Brighton thanks to a Jane Ross header. While Chelsea climbed to fourth with a 1-0 win at home to Reading.-------------------Leicester must play ‘million times better’ after Bristol loss, says Spencer






The Leicester lock Will Spencer pulled no punches after the Tigers found themselves drawn into the midst of the Premiership’s relegation battle, conceding his side need to be “a million times better” following the heavy defeat by Bristol.

Kyle Eastmond sees red as hapless Leicester crash to defeat at Bristol Read more

Leicester went down 41-10 at Ashton Gate, conceding a try bonus point for the sixth time in nine Premiership matches and prompting the head coach, Geordan Murphy, to admit the Tigers are now in a scrap for Premiership survival. They were reduced to 14 men after 24 minutes when Kyle Eastmond was sent off for a high tackle on Ian Madigan but England’s most successful and best supported club now have the worst defensive record in the league, having shipped 292 points, and are in eighth place, only three points off the foot of the table.

“We were not good enough and have to take it on the chin,” said Spencer. “We did not show up as a team or do the things we had worked on in training. We have to look at ourselves and get better, a million times better. We have got world-class players and coaches who put everything out for us and prepare us really well. We have not shown up enough this season and in this league that means you get beaten. We have to be better and we will.”

With a European double-header against Racing 92 approaching, Spencer is hopeful Leicester can breathe life into their stuttering season against last season’s Champions Cup runners-up. “We need a result to kickstart our season and maybe a change of competition in the next couple of weeks will help,” said Spencer. “We face Racing and still have a shout in the group but we will have to be a hell of a lot better than we were [against Bristol].”

The former Leicester hooker Harry Thacker scored Bristol’s first try inside two minutes and added a second before half-time as Bristol chalked up their second biggest Premiership win to move above the Tigers in the table. “It was a good result but we still have a long way to go,” said Thacker.

The Breakdown: sign up and get our weekly rugby union email.

“We are still building but we put in a performance we can be proud of. What was pleasing was that, when they had a player sent off, we did not go off script and put ourselves under pressure. We kept our composure and made sure we finished off the game. In other matches this season we have fallen off for 20 minutes or so but not today.”-------------------Owen Jones meets Keir Starmer: 'Brexit fatigue is real – but we can't let this deal pass' – video






Theresa May is facing a big battle to get her Brexit deal through parliament on 11 December amid cross-party hostility. What's Labour's alternative, and how does the party propose to reunite a divided nation? Owen Jones speaks to the shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, in the heart of his Camden constituency in north London





An extended version of this interview is available on Owen Jones's YouTube channel-------------------Why trash talk is essential to the fight game – video






Whether it’s showboating or shameful, puerile or poetry, trash talk is and will remain an integral part of professional fighting. It’s an invaluable promotional tool that risks contempt from the public and a powerful weapon that can distract your opponent, or make them stronger. In a sport where every move comes with the potential for a devastating counter, the double-edged nature of trash talk is most fitting

-------------------'We wanted to reflect everything black women can be': authors of Slay in Your Lane – video






Elizabeth Uviebinené and Yomi Adegoke are the co-authors of Slay in Your Lane: the Black Girl Bible. They talk to the Guardian's Iman Amrani about their experiences as black British women and why they have created the guide to help readers navigate their way through education, work and dating. This film is part of a new series, Fresh Voices-------------------Skip Day - high school friendship and everyday racism in Florida






Intimate glimpses of one very special day in the lives of high-school seniors from an industrial corner of the Florida Everglades: prom’s over, the future is uncertain, and the irresistible pull of the beach makes the long-time friends drive 60 miles to chill, pose and revel in the waves. Once at the beach, friendship, discussions about what's next, and an unwelcome dose of everyday racism mix. Winner of the Illy Prize for best short film at Directors’ Fortnight, Cannes Film Festival.-------------------​A day with Mr Stop Brexit: crashing TV interviews and fighting Ukip – video






Best known for interrupting news broadcasts and shouting: 'Stop Brexit', Steve Bray has become parliament's most persistent protester since the EU referendum result. So what motivates him to stand in Westminster come rain, wind, sun or snow?

-------------------How a 'quick sterilisation' took five years of my life – video






Jan Faulkner, a mother of five, says she suffered loss of bladder control and mobility after having the Essure contraceptive device implanted. Speaking after it was removed, she explains how she got her life back with the help of other women on Facebook who have experienced a similar ordeal





-------------------'I will not keep silent': Khadija rape case spurs women into action in Morocco – video






Moroccan teenager Khadija says she was kidnapped at knife-point, then raped, beaten and tortured by 12 men during a two-month ordeal. The case caused outrage, and inspired the #Masaktach – 'I will not keep silent' – campaign, encouraging women to fight back against the pervasive sexual harassment and violence they encounter on Morocco's streets-------------------Paradise lost: the town incinerated by California's deadliest wildfire – video






Paradise, California, was a slice of heaven for those who lived there – until they lost everything in California’s worst wildfire. The Camp fire wiped out the town, killed at least 85 people, and scorched 150,000 acres. But in the face of a dark new reality, shellshocked residents are displaying resilience-------------------How Steve Bannon's far-right 'Movement' stalled in Europe – video






Rightwing populists are on the rise across Europe. With European parliamentary elections approaching, they are being offered help from Donald Trump's former chief strategist, Steve Bannon. Over the last four months, the Guardian's Paul Lewis followed his operation in Brussels, Rome and Venice – challenging Bannon over his media hype and the legality of his intervention.

-------------------George HW Bush, 41st US president, dies aged 94 – video obituary






A look back at the life of the patriarch of the Bush political dynasty who was president from 1989-93. Bush is remembered for guiding the US through the breakup of the Soviet Union and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. George W Bush said his father was 'a man of the highest character and the best dad a son or daughter could ask for'-------------------Doctor Who stars say claims the show is too politically correct are 'bizarre'






Doctor Who stars say claims the show is too politically correct are 'bizarre'

The stars of Doctor Who have rejected claims that the programme has become too politically correct, defending its storylines as an “entertaining reminder” of important issues.

Recent episodes of the sci-fi show, which the actors recognised have provoked “extreme opinions” among some viewers commenting online, have covered issues including the US civil rights movement and the bloody 1947 partition of India – understood by many to have been entirely mismanaged by Britain, costing hundreds of thousands of lives and displacing more than 10 million people.

Mandip Gill and Tosin Cole, who play the Doctor’s companions Yaz and Ryan, told the Radio Times that broaching these topics could prompt viewers in an entertaining way to think about broader issues. “Everyone’s going to have their own opinion – it is what it is,” Cole said. “The fact that we can give everyone a little friendly, entertaining reminder of these issues is great.”

Is Doctor Who finally getting it right on race? Read more

Responding to the accusation of being too politically correct, Gill said: “It makes me laugh, because having the words ‘too’ and ‘correct’ in the same sentence is really bizarre to me. How can you be too correct about something?

“You do see some extreme comments under news articles. I’m only human, and I do check and read them. But they don’t bother me and actually they’re creating conversation.”

This series of Doctor Who is the first to have a female lead, with Jodie Whittaker receiving glowing reviews since assuming the role of the Doctor.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Jodie Whittaker as the Doctor with her three companions. Photograph: Giles Kyte/BBC / BBC Studios

The programme generates the most revenue for BBC Worldwide of all its properties, once merchandise and syndication is accounted for, with a global audience of around 70 million people.

In recent years, it has attracted criticism for backstory-heavy plots which leave the casual viewer struggling to make sense of complex storylines. The latest series, however, has been more concerned with pursuing standalone adventures and delving into historical events, dumping the more protracted story arcs of the past.

There will be no Doctor Who Christmas special this year, with an episode set to air on New Year’s Day instead.-------------------Developers may have to enhance wildlife habitats, says Gove






Developers could be obliged to enhance wildlife habitats when building houses or commercial property, under new government proposals.

A mandatory “biodiversity net gain” requirement could be put in place, meaning developers would have to leave habitats better off for wildlife than before any construction work.

The plan, applying to developments covered by the Town and Country Planning Act in England, is in a recently launched consultation running until 10 February. In circumstances where green improvements, such as tree planting or local nature area creation, were not possible, developers could be charged a levy to pay for habitat creation or improvement elsewhere.

Michael Gove, the environment secretary, said: “Our commitment to protecting and enhancing our natural world can go hand in hand with [building] more high-quality homes. Mandating biodiversity net gain puts the environment at the heart of planning and development.”-------------------NHS hospitals treat soaring number of older people for drug misuse






Growing numbers of middle-aged and older people are ending up in hospital suffering serious mental health problems after taking drugs, new NHS statistics reveal.

The number of people in England aged 45 and above admitted with a drug-related mental and behavioural disorder has soared 85% over the last decade.

They have been treated after displaying symptoms such as hallucinations, confusion, extreme agitation and disinhibition.

Similarly, there has also been an increase of 32% in admissions for poisoning as a result of drug misuse in those aged 55 and above over the last six years.

The figures from NHS Digital have prompted experts to claim that controversial changes in the government’s approach to drug addiction, and fewer specialist treatment services, have led to the rise in admissions.

“It is clear from this data that older people are suffering the consequences of cuts made to drug treatment services over recent years,” said Ian Hamilton, associate professor of addiction at the University of York.

From the archive: drugs on the rise in Britain Read more

“They are more likely to have had longer drug-using careers, so they will need longer in specialist drug treatment. However, unfortunately treatment services are being directed to offer abstinence-based services rather than maintaining this group on substitute drugs like methadone.”

The coalition government formed after the 2010 election provoked criticism from drugs experts when it moved away from the long-established “harm reduction” approach to helping addicts and instead sought to increase the numbers of people dependent on heroin and crack giving up altogether.

“We are now witnessing the consequences as this group of older users are developing problems which result in admission to hospital as a result of their drug use,” added Hamilton.

The dramatic increases are disclosed in NHS Digital’s latest bulletin on drug misuse. They are in stark contrast to far smaller increases in younger people. For example, admissions for mental and behavioural disorders rose by just 1% in those under 45, and hospitalisations for drug poisoning increased by only 6% in the under-55s.

Dr Tony Rao, a consultant psychiatrist specialising in addiction in older people, said NHS Digital’s findings should be “a wake-up call” on the dangers of using drugs.

'Desperate crisis' as addiction services reach fewer people Read more

“Middle-aged and older people of the baby boomer generation are less likely than previous generations to reduce their illicit drug use as they get older.

“Greater social acceptance of recreational drug use in childhood has meant that middle-aged and older people of this generation find it more difficult to change their attitudes towards drug use and drug-related harm as they grow older,” said Rao, a spokesman for the Royal College of Psychiatrists.

Data published last month by Public Health England also showed big increases in recent years in over-50s receiving help with addiction problems.

For example, the numbers in that age group who presented with a drug-related health condition more than trebled from 5,679 in 2005/06 to 19,529 in 2017/18 – a rise of 243%.

Similarly, the number of them who then started residential drug treatment rose over the same period from 1,797 to 4,455 – an increase of 148%.

Lucy Schonegevel, head of health influencing at Rethink Mental Illness, said the NHS Digital data provided “yet another piece of evidence in an ever-growing list showing the pressure that NHS services are facing in treating people with mental ill health. In these situations we can only be blunt: the numbers are travelling in the wrong direction and time is running out to do the right thing.”

Hamilton called for greater availability of naloxone, an antidote which stops people who have taken a heroin overdose from dying, and the creation of “safe injection facilities” where users can inject drugs safely.-------------------Killing of swan family in Kent brings calls for airgun regulation






Five cygnets and their parents were shot, wrapped in plastic bags and thrown down bank of a stream

A family of swans has been shot and killed in what has been called a “senseless” airgun attack.

The bodies of five cygnets and both of their parents were found wrapped in plastic bags after they were thrown down the bank of a stream in the village of Benenden, in Kent.

Police were called to the scene last Sunday and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) has launched an investigation.

Two of the birds’ bodies were examined by staff at RSPCA Mallydams Wood Wildlife Centre in Hastings, East Sussex.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The bodies of the dead birds were found at the village of Benenden in Kent. Photograph: RSPCA/PA

“It’s clear that these poor mute swans have been shot and killed deliberately – one of the birds was peppered with pellets,” said RSPCA inspector Dave Grant.

“It’s absolutely disgusting that someone would purposefully target and kill these beautiful birds, and it’s heartbreaking that an entire family has been wiped out in this cruel incident.”

PC Daniel Perry said: “Kent Police was called at around 10am on 24 November to a report that a number of swans were found dead in plastic bags by a stream in Stepneyford Lane in Benenden.

“Officers from the rural task force attended to carry out inquiries at the scene, and are continuing to assist the RSPCA to establish the circumstances of the incident.”

The RSPCA is calling for better regulation of air weapons after receiving 884 calls reporting airgun attacks on animals across England and Wales last year.

The animal welfare charity said there were 51 calls from Kent – the second highest figure in the country – with wild birds, wild animals and cats most likely to be injured by airguns.-------------------AI and drones turn an eye towards UK's energy infrastructure






National Grid using artificial intelligence to check drone footage of 7,000 miles of wires and pylons

National Grid has turned to artificial intelligence to help it maintain the wires and pylons that transmit electricity from power stations to homes and businesses across the UK.

The firm has been using six drones for the past two years to help inspect its 7,200 miles of overhead lines around England and Wales.

Equipped with high-res still, video and infrared cameras, the drones are deployed to assess the steelwork, wear and corrosion, and faults such as damaged conductors.

Q&A What is AI? Show Hide Artificial Intelligence has various definitions, but in general it means a program that uses data to build a model of some aspect of the world. This model is then used to make informed decisions and predictions about future events. The technology is used widely, to provide speech and face recognition, language translation, and personal recommendations on music, film and shopping sites. In the future, it could deliver driverless cars, smart personal assistants, and intelligent energy grids. AI has the potential to make organisations more effective and efficient, but the technology raises serious issues of ethics, governance, privacy and law.

Historically, such work was undertaken by engineers climbing up pylons or using helicopters.

But John Pettigrew, National Grid’s chief executive, said the firm had now taken a further step and started applying machine learning to analyse the drone footage and cut the volume of material a human operator needs to review.

“That [the AI] will determine the overall condition of the asset and whether it needs to replaced or repaired. We are just developing this as a prototype. When we talk about digitisation it’s real practical engineering-type stuff we’re doing,” he said.

Artificial intelligence will be net UK jobs creator, finds report Read more

A dozen people are involved in the project, with the AI work only beginning in the past few months.

National Grid partnered with UK startup Keen Ai for the technology, and is now trying to hone the system to better identify problems. “The results improve greatly as we supply more images to the application,” the firm said.

The drones, which are made by DJI, are seen as a better option for inspections in areas where livestock might be disturbed by a helicopter or in built-up urban areas where it is hard to fly helicopters at low altitudes.

Pettigrew said such innovation would be vital in future.

As a regulated monopoly, National Grid has to operate under “price controls” set by Ofgem, which dictates how much revenue a firm can earn from investments ultimately paid for by consumers. The energy regulator has said the next set of controls starting in 2021 will be tougher.

Sign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk

While good for household energy bills, the changes will mean lower returns for National Grid.

Pettigrew said that while the company’s electricity network only accounted for about 3%, or £35, of a typical dual-fuel energy bill, protecting consumers was important.

But he said ensuring returns were reasonable under the new regime was key to attracting investors, he said. “Many investors today are global, they can choose to invest in the UK, the US or Europe.”

He conceded that the reforms would mean a smaller National Grid in future. “The changes are likely to reduce some headcount,” he said.-------------------Met police numbers 'will fall dramatically without new funds'






Sadiq Khan says London force will drop to 2002 levels unless hundreds of millions of pounds in new money can be secured

Officer numbers in the Metropolitan police will fall to their lowest level since 2002 unless hundreds of millions of pounds in new funding can be secured, London’s Labour mayor has said.

A new forecast by the mayor’s office for policing and crime (Mopac), which is responsible for law enforcement in the capital, says the Met still has to find £325m in saving because of government cuts. The force currently has just under 29,700 officers.

The forecast projects that by 2022, further planned cuts will take Met officer numbers down to 26,800, for a population of more than 9 million people. When Met officer numbers were last that low in 2002, London’s population was 7 million.

The forecast does not take into account any increase in funding that may be announced next week when the government announces a financial settlement for policing.

Public confidence in police damaged by cuts, report warns Read more

Leaks put out by the Conservatives suggest local government will be allowed to raise council tax further to fund the police and there may be some extra national government funding. Even then, informal estimates suggest that would leave the capital with around 27,500 officers, assuming the leaks are correct.

A decision by the Treasury meaning police forces have to pay more toward pensions for their officers will cost the Met over £100m a year, again hitting officer numbers.

Rising crime and the consequent rising public concern has led to the Conservatives dropping their insistence that the police budget could be cut.

Since 2010, when the Conservatives came to power nationally, Mopac says London has lost 3,000 police officers, another 3,000 police community support officers and 5,000 civilian staff. The Met has made £850m in savings, including selling its headquarters and moving into a smaller building.

The new Mopac forecast assumes any savings would be made purely by cuts to officer numbers, and paying and maintaining staff is the biggest cost the Met faces.

London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, said: “The causes of violent crime are extremely complex, but there is no doubt it has been made far worse by huge government cuts to the police and youth services.

“Even the home secretary has finally admitted that the Met won’t be able to tackle violent crime without more funding from the government.

“Now we urgently need to see action to avoid officer numbers falling even further. I’m genuinely concerned about how we keep Londoners safe with officer numbers as low as 26,800.

“Ministers need to reverse the £1bn savings forced on the Met and reverse their cuts on youth services and other preventative services so that we can keep our city safe.”

Khan will meet the home secretary, Sajid Javid, on Tuesday to discuss police funding, with the announcement from the Treasury about any extra money for the police expected on Thursday.

London’s population has been growing since the start of this century and is forecast to hit 10 million by 2030.

Police cuts hit London harder than other parts of UK, says Sadiq Khan Read more

Until 2010 police numbers were broadly stable at around the 30,000 mark or just above.

In 2010 it had 33,367 officers for a population of 8,054,000, meaning it had 4.1 police officers per thousand people.

Now it has 29,654 officers for a population of 9 million, or 3.3 officers per thousand people, and the number of officers is forecast to fall, despite a rising population and hundreds of thousands of visitors to the capital every year.

Historically, London has had more officers per hundred thousand population than other big urban forces because the capital is seen as having more complex needs.

Police chiefs nationally are threatening to sue the government unless it relieves the new financial burden placed on forces by the government’s decision on police pensions.-------------------Labour questions DfE's £2.5m apprenticeship advertising spend






Labour has questioned why ministers are spending more than £2.5m with a single advertising agency to promote apprenticeships, when the number of people entering such schemes is dropping and the government seems to have abandoned its targets in the area.

A written parliamentary question to the Department for Education (DfE) from the shadow education secretary, Angela Rayner, found the department was paying £2.55m in the 2018-19 financial year to promote apprenticeships.

The money going to M&C Saatchi, which is a favourite advertising agency of the Conservative party, was being spent on “a new integrated communications campaign to change perceptions of apprenticeships and to encourage more people to see the positive value that apprenticeships can have on their business or their career”, the junior education minister Anne Milton said in the reply.

The contract was awarded after a competitive tender, she added, and also covered areas such as research and digital services.

You're hired! Whitehall wants school leavers as apprentice economists Read more

But Labour queried the spend when the latest official figures for apprenticeship take-ups show that at, 290,500 in the first three quarters of the 2017-18 academic year, they were 34% lower than in the same period in 2016-17 and 24.5% lower than the year before that.

The government remains committed to expanding apprenticeship opportunities but has struggled to push up the numbers, and has seemingly abandoned a longstanding target to create 3m apprenticeships by April 2020.

The pledge was initially made by David Cameron in 2015, and continued under Theresa May. But after the manufacturers’ representative group EEF, which is heavily involved in apprenticeships, said it seemed unlikely the target would be reached, Downing Street declined to confirm it was still in place.

Rayner said: “Austerity is not over for our colleges, but this government is more than happy to hand out millions of pounds of taxpayers’ money to the Tories’ favourite advertising agency after abjectly failing to meet their own apprenticeships targets.

“Labour will genuinely end austerity, providing free lifelong learning in colleges and invest in workplace training as part of a national education service for the many, not the few.”

Milton said: “The aim of the new campaign is to grow the number of high-quality apprenticeships offered, and started, by 2020 and to change perceptions of apprenticeships to encourage more people to see the positive value they can have on their business or their career.

“Our reforms have driven up investment in the quality of apprenticeships to build skills and give people more opportunities to succeed … In the last 12 months more than 100,000 more people have started these new apprenticeships, putting them on the path to success in a range of cutting-edge and exciting industries such as aerospace engineering, nuclear science and architecture.”-------------------Archbishop of Canterbury: I am not too political






The archbishop of Canterbury has defended his right to intervene on issues that might be deemed political as he backed the findings in the UN envoy’s report on poverty in Britain.

Philip Alston’s report, published last month, prompted a political row, after the government rejected its conclusions that “punitive, mean-spirited, and often callous” austerity policies had inflicted “great misery” on people.

Discussing the findings, Justin Welby, the leader of the Church of England, said the arguments presented by Alston needed to be addressed point by point but he had seen real hardship in his own diocese of Canterbury and elsewhere.

He told BBC One’s The Andrew Marr Show: “I think it’s really important for the government to respond carefully to that [report], not to dismiss it. It’s by a very distinguished UN rapporteur. Certainly there are parts of the country where there’s huge deprivation.

“We see communities caught in a poverty trap. Now, the economy has improved very much in many places but there’s a significant group of people who just seem trapped and the system doesn’t help them and I think that’s what the UN rapporteur was getting at.”

BBC Politics (@BBCPolitics) The Archbishop of Canterbury: “There are parts of the country where there is huge deprivation’”



Justin Welby tells #marr about his decision to speak out on inequality#marr https://t.co/YJggw0ZzCC pic.twitter.com/62vECMahx5

Welby’s intervention is the latest in a series tackling issues relating to inequality. In September, addressing the Trades Union Congress (TUC) in Manchester, he criticised firms such as Amazon for paying “almost nothing” in taxes, and said the gig economy and zero-hours contracts were “the reincarnation of an ancient evil”.

He also called for the rollout of universal credit to be stopped. Welby was also on the IPPR commission on economic justice, which found the UK was being held back by a business culture dominated by decades of short-term profit-taking, weak levels of investment and low wages.

Such pronouncements have ruffled feathers in the Conservative party. After Welby’s TUC appearance, the Tory MP Ben Bradley accused the archbishop of “parroting Labour policy” and said he “only seems interested in presenting [shadow chancellor] John McDonnell’s point of view”. His criticism was echoed by fellow Tory MP Charles Walker.

But questioned about the appropriateness of his interventions, Welby insisted to Marr that he was just doing his job. He also said that he was the seventh archbishop of Canterbury to address the TUC, countering the suggestion that his appearance there was inappropriate.

“I haven’t gone too far,” said Welby. “I am not party political, I am not a member of any political party. I don’t support the Labour party or the Conservative party or anyone else, I simply try to speak from the Christian scriptures about the values that Jesus put forward himself.”

Welby, who voted remain in the EU referendum, did draw the line at giving his view on whether there should be a second referendum, saying it was a matter for parliament. However, he called for more tolerance in the Brexit debate.

“I hope and request that political leaders will be moderate in their language in the next few months, that we will calm down the hatreds that have arisen in the last few years,” he said.-------------------Yemen: injured Houthi rebels to be evacuated, raising hope of peace talks






Fifty fighters to be taken to Muscat on UN plane on Monday as part of ‘confidence-building’ measure

Fifty wounded Houthi militants in Yemen’s rebel-held capital, Sana’a, will be evacuated to Muscat for treatment on Monday, a Saudi-led military coalition said, calling it a “confidence-building” measure before planned peace talks in Sweden.

The evacuation on a UN-chartered plane marks a key step forward in kickstarting stalled negotiations as world powers press for an end to the four-year conflict that has pushed Yemen to the brink of famine.

The fate of wounded rebels had been a stumbling block to the start of a previous round of aborted peace talks in September.

Who are the Houthis and why are they fighting the Saudi coalition in Yemen? Read more

“A UN-chartered plane will arrive at Sanaa international airport Monday to evacuate 50 wounded combatants accompanied by ... three Yemeni doctors and a UN doctor, from Sana’a to Muscat,” coalition spokesman Turki al-Maliki said in a statement carried by the official Saudi Press Agency.

The coalition agreed to facilitate the medical evacuations at the request of UN envoy Martin Griffiths for “humanitarian reasons” and as a “confidence-building” measure, Maliki said in the statement early on Monday.

There was no immediate reaction from Houthi rebels or the United Nations.

The proposed UN-brokered peace talks have been backed by both the rebels and the Saudi-led government and were expected to take place in Sweden this week. UN secretary general Antonio Guterres, however, has played down the early December schedule and said he hoped talks would start “this year”.

The famine facing Yemen is a war crime – it must be investigated | Emily Thornberry Read more

Houthi rebels have said they will attend if they are guaranteed safe passage.

Previous talks planned for September in Geneva failed when the Houthi delegation did not leave Sana’a, arguing that the UN could not guarantee their safe return. They also accused the world body of failing to secure the evacuation of wounded rebels to Oman.

Previous talks in 2016 in Kuwait broke down after 108 days of negotiations, leaving rebel delegates stranded in Oman for three months.

In recent days, Griffiths has held talks separately with officials from both warring parties as part of efforts to lay the groundwork for talks in Sweden.

UN aid chief Mark Lowcock warned last week that Yemen was “on the brink of a major catastrophe”, following a trip to the war-wracked country.

His comments came after renewed deadly clashes between Houthi rebels and pro-government forces in the Red Sea port city of Hodeidah, which is vital for the flow of humanitarian aid.

Under heavy international pressure, Saudi-backed pro-government forces have largely suspended an offensive launched in June to take the port city.

Sporadic fighting has however continued since a fragile truce began on November 13.

The United Nations has described Yemen as the world’s worst humanitarian disaster, with at least 10,000 people killed since the intervention began in 2015. Rights groups fear the actual toll is far higher.-------------------Hong Kong pro-democracy lawmaker barred from running in local election






Eddie Chu told that his support for independence from China disqualified him from running in rural part of the New Territories

Hong Kong authorities have barred a pro-democracy lawmaker from running in a local election for “implicitly” supporting Hong Kong’s independence from China, in what critics said was another instance of civil rights being eroded in the China-ruled city

Eddie Chu, a former journalist who was democratically elected as one of Hong Kong’s 70 legislators in a 2016 election, had planned to contest a separate grassroots poll to represent a village in the rural hinterland of the New Territories.

Hong Kong protesters go on trial as fight for democracy continues Read more

But an official with Hong Kong’s Electoral Affairs Commission, Enoch Yuen, wrote to Chu on Sunday to disqualify his candidacy on the grounds that Chu had previously expressed support for “independence as an option for Hong Kong people to self-determine their future”.

While Chu had written to Yuen stating he didn’t support independence, she concluded that Chu’s answers: “When viewed objectively, can be understood as implicitly confirming that he supports independence could be an option for Hong Kong people”.

Chu said he might challenge the “ridiculous” decision in court, and that he had been stripped of a fundamental political right at a time when Beijing has tightened its grip on the city.

He pointed out that he was already an elected lawmaker with strong public backing, whose suitability for public office had never previously been questioned.

“They need to clearly tell the people of Hong Kong ... how they can, without any public consultation or legislative process, change the threshold of political screening.”

Hong Kong, a former British colony, reverted to Chinese rule in 1997 amid guarantees the territory would enjoy a high degree of autonomy and freedoms under a “one country, two systems” formula.

The Chinese export we really should be worried about: repression | Simon Tisdall Read more

Over the past year, however, international concern has spread over a series of incidents that have further undermined confidence in Hong Kong’s rights landscape, including the de facto expulsion of a British journalist after he hosted a speech by an independence activist at a press club.

The move against Chu adds to a list of other democrats who have been banned from contesting elections, fuelling fears of tightening political “red lines” by Beijing that could deny Hong Kong’s disaffected young people any mainstream political careers beyond street protest.

In a statement, a government spokesman said late on Sunday that the government “agrees to and supports the decision” to ban Chu. It also denied there had been “any political censorship, restriction of the freedom of speech or deprivation of the right to stand for elections“.

Hong Kong authorities say “self-determination“, or seeking greater autonomy from China, violates the city’s mini-constitution, the Basic Law, which states that Hong Kong is an inalienable part of China.-------------------Donald Trump and Xi Jinping declare trade truce at G20






US officials say president will wait 90 days before imposing 25% tariffs to allow negotiations

Donald Trump has delayed for 90 days his threatened imposition of 25% tariffs on most Chinese imports after a dinner meeting with Xi Jinping, to give time for negotiations on longstanding trade disputes between the two countries, the White House has said.

Trump said their dinner after the G20 summit in Buenos Aires “was an amazing and productive meeting with unlimited possibilities for both the United States and China”.

A statement by the White House spokeswoman, Sarah Sanders, issued as Trump was on his way back to Washington, listed concessions the Chinese president was said have made, including stopping Chinese exports to the US of fentanyl, a synthetic opioid, and the death sentence for convicted traffickers.

G20 agreement backs 'rules-based' order but bows to Trump on trade reforms Read more

The statement said that Xi, “in a wonderful humanitarian gesture, has agreed to designate fentanyl as a controlled substance, meaning that people selling fentanyl to the United States will be subject to China’s maximum penalty under the law”.

The press statement said Trump would not follow through his threat to raise tariffs on $200 bn worth of Chinese goods from 10% to 25% in the new year, which he had described as a reprisal for a long history of unfair Chinese trade practices. There were widespread concerns that such a large hike in tariffs could trigger a serious trade war between the two countries, with devastating results for the global economy.

According to Sanders, Xi agreed that China would purchase “a not yet agreed upon, but very substantial, amount of agricultural, energy, industrial, and other product from the United States to reduce the trade imbalance between our two countries”.

“China has agreed to start purchasing agricultural product from our farmers immediately,” the statement said. Since trade tensions have escalated under Trump, China has radically reduced its import of US soy beans and other farm products, with direct impact on farmers in the US mid-west where Trump has drawn much of his political support.

Sanders said the two leaders had agreed to begin immediate negotiations on “structural changes” on chronic issues of contention, including the practice of forcing US investors to hand over technological knowhow, intellectual property protection and non-tariff barriers to entry for US businesses. The negotiations would also encompass cyber theft, services and agriculture.

“Both parties agree that they will endeavour to have this transaction completed within the next 90 days. If at the end of this period of time the parties are unable to reach an agreement, the 10% tariffs will be raised to 25%,” Sanders said.

The Chinese government also welcomed the outcome of the talks.

“The two presidents agreed that the two sides can and must get bilateral relations right,” Wang Yi, China’s lead diplomat, told reporters in Buenos Aires. “Discussion on economic and trade issues was very positive and constructive. The two heads of state reached consensus to halt the mutual increase of new tariffs.”

Wang did not give as many details as the White House, but said: “China is willing to increase imports in accordance with the needs of its domestic market and the people’s needs, including marketable products from the United States, to gradually ease the imbalance in two-way trade.”

Technology trade body ITI said the agreement was “a critical step toward de-escalating the mutually damaging trade war between the world’s two largest economies”.

Financial analysts were cautiously optimistic. Paul Ashworth of Capital Economists pointed out that Trump tore up an earlier trade deal with China this year.

“We suspect that since he negotiated this deal himself, Trump will be much more reluctant to torpedo it when his own personal reputation is on the line,” Ashworth added.-------------------Far right wins seats in Spanish region for first time since Franco






Far right wins seats in Spanish region for first time since Franco

A far-right party has won seats in a Spanish regional parliament for the first time since the country returned to democracy following the death of longtime dictator Francisco Franco in 1975.

With 99% of the votes counted in Andalucía, the small Vox party took 12 seats in the 109-member regional parliament.

The Socialists won the election, but saw their support plummet to just 33 seats, compared to 47 in 2015 – far from the majority of 55 seats needed to govern.

Thousands march in Spain to oppose violence against women Read more

The result means that Vox, which opposes illegal immigration and Catalan independence, has exceeded even the most optimistic poll predictions which had forecast a possible five seat win. The party’s platform includes restricting abortion and rolling back domestic violence laws.

Vox had not previously held any seats in any legislative body in Spain since its founding four years ago, and now it has the key to forming a government in the nation’s most populated region.

“Now is the moment to say loud and clear who we are and that we have come to stay,” Vox candidate Francisco Serrano told a crowd of supporters who chanted: “Spain! Spain! Spain!”

There has been a real loss of ground for the Left Susan Diaz

Andalucía has been a Socialist bastion for 36 years, but the party could lose control of the government if parties on the right join forces to oust regional leader Susana Diaz, though that would require that they join forces with Vox.

“Despite winning the election it is a sad night for the Socialist Party,” Diaz said.

“There has been a real loss of ground for the Left. But the worst thing is that the extreme right, a phenomenon that has appeared in the rest of Europe, has arrived here.”

Diaz said she would call on other parties to “build a firewall against the extreme right in Spain.”

Spanish prime minister facing first test as Andalucía goes to polls Read more

“Each party must decide if they are against the extreme right or if they will rely on their support to enter into government,” she said.

The Socialist Workers’ Party (PSOE) scored the worst result in its history winning 33 seats so far.

Its potential ally on the left Adelante Andalusia (Forward Andalusia) picked up only 17 seats, depriving the left of a majority, while the conservative Popular Party (PP) won 26 seats and the Ciudadanos liberals took 21 seats.

The poll had been seen as the first of a series of tests for Socialist prime minister Pedro Sanchez.

It was Sanchez’s first electoral test since taking office in June after winning a surprise vote of no-confidence in parliament against the previous PP government of Mariano Rajoy over a corruption scandal.

His Socialists had ruled Andalusia since 1982.

The vote is a mere foretaste of the coming “super election year”: 2019 will see municipal, regional and European elections and perhaps even an early general election to coincide with the other May polls.

All eyes will now be on Vox, which could try to use Andalusia as a springboard in next year’s elections.

Associated Press and Agence France-Presse contributed to this report-------------------Philippines journalist Maria Ressa vows to challenge tax fraud charges after arrest






Editor of independent news website Rappler has been released on bail over charges she says are being used to intimidate her

Maria Ressa, the editor of Philippine online news website Rappler, has turned herself into the authorities on Monday after a warrant was issued for her arrest.

Last month the government announced it was charging Ressa and Rappler with five counts of tax fraud, charges that Ressa said were trumped up in an attempt to “harass and intimidate” the news organisation, which has been highly critical of president Rodrigo Duterte’s administration.

On Sunday night, Ressa confirmed to the Guardian a warrant for her arrest had been issued. On Monday morning, she surrendered to the authorities at Pasig city regional trial court in Manila and posted bail, which was set at 60,000 Philippine pesos (£900).

Speaking outside the courthouse after posting bail, Ressa said that “now is certainly not the time to be afraid”.

“We need to hold government to account, and part of the reason I’m here is precisely that,” she said. “I’m not a criminal but I’ve been fingerprinted like a criminal. We feel that we did not get due process.”

She added: “Frankly, it’s a bit shocking to me the lengths government will go to to let little Rappler feel its power.”

I will continue to hold the government accountable Maria Ressa

The warrant was issued on 28 November but the arrest of Ressa was ordered only on her return to the Philippines on Sunday. She had spent several weeks travelling to receive multiple awards for her work with Rappler, including the 2018 Knight International Journalism award and this year’s prestigious Press Freedom award given by the Committee to Protect Journalists.

“I’m going to challenge the process and I’m going to challenge the charges,” Ressa said on Sunday, moments after landing in Manila airport. “I will continue to hold the government accountable.”

Rappler (@rapplerdotcom) LOOK: Pasig RTC 265 releases warrant of arrest for Maria Ressa in tax case and sets bail at P60,000. pic.twitter.com/XHbXDqvZdW

Philippine editor accuses Duterte of 'weaponising' rule of law Read more

The Department of Justice confirmed last week it was charging Rappler with three counts of failure to file returns, and one count of tax evasion, all charges that Ressa denies. The charges carry heavy fines and jail sentences of up to 10 years.

The move to arrest Ressa is the latest in what many have seen as a direct attack by Duterte’s regime on news organisations that have been critical of his government, in particular his war on drugs which has taken an estimated tens of thousands of lives over the past two years.

Rappler was among the main news organisations challenging the extrajudicial killings by the police and subsequently has been the subject of seven government investigations, with their political reporter also banned from the presidential palace.

The National Union of Journalists in the Philippines issued a statement damning the warrant issued for Ressa’s arrest. They stated: “Arresting Maria will send a clear signal that the country’s democracy is fast receding under a feckless administration that cannot abide criticism and free expression and will go to ridiculous lengths to muzzle all those it does not agree with.”-------------------New Zealand MP speaks of abuse ordeal as new laws tackle strangulation attacks






Golriz Ghahraman says she normalised abuse and that society needs to help victims see the warning signs

A New Zealand MP has spoken of an abusive relationship in which her partner attempted to strangle her, and welcomed parliament passing legislation tackling domestic violence.

The Family Violence (Amendments) Act makes non-fatal strangulation a new offence that carries a maximum penalty of seven years in prison.

Other amendments include coercion to marry becoming a seperate offence, assault on a family member becoming a seperate offence, and amendments to the Evidence Act that allow victims of family violence to give evidence via video recordings.

Greens MP Golriz Ghahraman was trapped in a violent relationship and escaped only after changing her phone number and address, and with the support of friends. Ghahraman said the new law would help women recognise the seriousness of being the victim of a strangulation attempt, and hopefully encourage them to ask for help.

Paid domestic violence leave means, to me, a rare moment of empowerment | Anonymous Read more

“When I look back I think ‘you just don’t let yourself admit that it’s so serious’,” says Gharaman. “You kind of see it as a package of ‘it’s passionate’ and there’s that message of toxic masculinity where you go ‘oh jealousy is just normal for boys’ and then it escalates from there.”

Gharaman said the isolation and secrecy of being in a violent relationship meant many woman failed to report a strangulation incident, or recognise what an escalation in abuse and danger it represented.

“Sometimes you just kind of need society to help you recognise that these things are really serious and dangerous – you do need these indicators and messages from broader society to tell you that some things are criminal.” the MP said.

New Zealand has one of the worst rates of family violence in the OECD, with police attending a family violence incident every four minutes, and 80% of incidents going unreported.

The latest data from the Ministry of Justice shows about 1 million New Zealanders, or 23% of the population, are directly affected by family violence every year.

Research has found being strangled by a partner is an especially strong signal of escalating abuse, and leads to a seven-fold increase in the risk of being murdered by your partner. Strangulation attempts are frequently missed by police and health workers because there can be no obvious or immediate injuries.

Jan Logie, the parliamentary under-secretary responsible for domestic and sexual violence issues said that before the amendment strangulation attempts weren’t being consistently prosecuted, and some women who were murdered by their partners had been strangled at least once before the fatal action.

“We ultimately hope that this will prevent deaths. We actually want to save lives here,” said Logie, who used to work for a women’s refuge.

Half of all homicides in New Zealand are family violence-related. Between 2009 and 2015 there were 194 family violence deaths. Of those involving partners, 98% had a recorded history of abuse of a woman by a male partner.

Around the world various countries are beginning to introduce a seperate offence for non-fatal strangulation, including the state of Queensland in Australia, and 47 states in the US.-------------------Amlo promises to 'purify public life' as he assumes Mexican presidency






The new president also restated his promise to put Mexico’s poor first and tackle violence

Leftwing politician Andrés Manuel López Obrador has assumed Mexico’s presidency with a promise to profoundly transform Latin America’s second-biggest economy and to lead a government free of corruption.

Seemingly tireless at 65, López Obrador – known as Amlo – breezed through a day of public appearances on Saturday that included taking the oath of office, speaking to Congress and attending an inaugural celebration in the centre of Mexico City.

He received a spiritual cleansing by indigenous leaders as part of the festivities, in which traditional healers brushed him with bunches of herbs and blew incense smoke over him. They invoked the spirits of their ancestors and the land to liberate him from any bad influences.

“What we want, what we desire is to purify public life in Mexico,” Amlo said during the ceremony. “I repeat my commitment: I will not lie, I will not steal or betray the people of Mexico.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Amlo supporters watch his inauguration ceremony on a big screen at the Zócalo square in Mexico City. Photograph: Alfredo Estrella/AFP/Getty Images

He gave a 90-minute speech to the thousands of jubilant supporters jamming the Zócalo, the city’s main square, vowing to help the poor in a nation where almost half the population lives in poverty.

“We are going to govern for everyone, but we are going to give preference to the most impoverished and vulnerable,” Amlo said. “For the good of all, the poor come first.”

Speaking in a personal style honed over decades of small-town rallies, he told the crowd: “Be patient and have confidence in me.”

President Amlo takes power with vow to transform Mexico – but can he deliver? Read more

One of the most pressing issues Amlo faces at the start of his presidency is the caravan of thousands of Central American migrants camped out at the US border, hoping to obtain asylum.

In his first official act in office, he signed an agreement on Saturday with counterparts in three Central American countries to create a development plan for the region. The plan would include a fund to generate jobs as a way to lessen the poverty that drives people to leave El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

The president also pledged on Saturday to personally oversee daily 6 am security briefings and to work 16-hour days to confront the brutal violence in Mexico, and promised to restore the energy sector to prominence and bring up oil production from the country’s current 25-year lows.

-------------------Police recommend indicting Benjamin Netanyahu on bribery charges






Investigation has established foundation to charge Israeli prime minister and his wife, Sara, police say

Israeli police have recommended indicting Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, on bribery charges related to a corruption case implicating the country’s telecom giant, prompting immediate calls for his resignation.

On Sunday police said their investigation had established an evidentiary foundation to charge Netanyahu and his wife, Sara, with accepting bribes, fraud and breach of trust.

The case revolves around suspicions that confidants of Netanyahu promoted regulations worth hundreds of millions of dollars to the Bezeq telecom company in exchange for positive coverage of the prime minister on Bezeq’s subsidiary news website, Walla.

Israeli police name Netanyahu associates in corruption inquiry Read more

Police have already recommended indicting Netanyahu on corruption charges in two other cases. One involves accepting gifts from billionaire friends, and the second revolves around alleged offers of advantageous legislation for a newspaper in return for positive coverage.

The prime minister has denied any wrongdoing, dismissing the accusations as a witch-hunt orchestrated by the media.

“The police recommendations regarding me and my wife don’t surprise anyone,” Netanyahu said in a statement. “These recommendations were decided upon and leaked even before the investigation began.”

The Bezeq case, known as Case 4,000, is the most serious of all those of which Netanyahu has been accused. Two of his top confidants have turned state witnesses and are believed to have provided police with incriminating evidence. Netanyahu held the government’s communications portfolio until last year and oversaw regulation in the field. Former journalists at the Walla news site have attested to being pressed to refrain from negative reporting of Netanyahu.

Police say the investigation, which included the testimony of 60 witnesses, revealed that Netanyahu and Bezeq boss Shaul Elovitch engaged in a “bribe-based relationship”.

From 2012 to 2017 the Israeli prime minister and his associates “blatantly intervened” on a near-daily basis in the Walla news site, using the connections with Elovitch to influence appointments there and to promote flattering articles and pictures while quelling critical stories of the prime minister and his family, police said.

Police are also recommending charges be brought against Elovitch and members of his family.

“The most serious bribery case yet leaves no room for doubt: a prime minister who is accused of the most serious offence for a public servant in the Israeli rulebook cannot keep serving one minute longer,” said Tamar Zandberg, head of the dovish opposition Meretz party.

Netanyahu meets with coalition partner to stop government collapse Read more

“The prime minister has no moral mandate to keep his seat and must resign today. Israel must go to elections.”



Netanyahu’s colleagues in the ruling Likud party have lined up behind their leader, attacking outgoing police commissioner Roni Alsheikh for releasing the recommendation on his last day on the job. The appointment of Alsheikh’s potential successor is being held up after a government-appointed committee rejected his candidacy.

The latest development further threatens the wobbly government, already weakened by the recent departure of defense minister Avigdor Lieberman and his party. Netanyahu’s coalition currently enjoys only the slimmest of parliamentary majorities. Elections are scheduled for November 2019.

Police are also recommending that charges be brought against Netanyahu’s wife, Sara, who has been at the center of much of the corruption allegations surrounding the longtime Israeli leader. Reports have surfaced of Sara Netanyahu relaying requests to Bezeq officials.

She has already been charged with fraud and breach of trust for allegedly overspending roughly $100,000 (£78,000) on private meals at the prime minister’s official residence, even as there was a full-time chef on staff.

Sara Netanyahu has long faced allegations of extravagant living and abusive behaviour. In 2016, a court ruled she abused an employee and awarded the man $42,000 (£32,000) in damages. Other former employees have accused her of mistreatment, charges the Netanyahus have vehemently denied.-------------------The Little Drummer Girl episode six recap: an explosive and satisfying finale






When someone walks into a restricted area with a briefcase crammed with semtex you might expect amateur dramatics to go out the window in favour of a slightly more tactical response. But in the bowels of the very 70s-looking Polytechnic of Greater London, spy ringmaster Kurtz (Michael Shannon) insisted his leading lady, Charlie (Florence Pugh), run her lines even as an old–school timer ticked down to kerblam o’clock. “Play the scene!” he insisted, while a seething Picton (Charles Dance) looked on. So Charlie, not for the first time, acted out a rather stilted scenario with a skittish partner – visiting lecturer Professor Minkel, putting a brave face on being the target for some fairly indiscriminate assassination – in front of an anxious audience of bomb disposal experts.

The delivery of that suitcase payload – and Kurtz’s successful interception of it – was the logical climax of The Little Drummer Girl, a heightened drama that, for six stylish, if opaque episodes, has teased out the cat–and–mouse game between an implacable Israeli intelligence team and a cautious cell of defiant PLO bombers, using plucky, instinctive Charlie as both lure and weapon. But, after finally getting one step ahead of his target, Kurtz – a man with such theatrical yet ruthless instincts one suspects he would have made an effective movie producer in another life – was already hungrily eyeing a sequel. Learning that Charlie was in direct contact with master bomber Khalil (Charif Ghattas), he wanted to extend her undercover contract indefinitely, much to the distress of her handler, Becker (Alexander Skarsgård).

We had already witnessed Charlie bonding with Khalil in a remote countryside cottage (and realised, via flashback, that he had already scrutinised her while posing as her firing range instructor in Lebanon, last episode). He was slim and handsome with striking but wary eyes. Of course, he would be intrigued by the bolshy English woman who had apparently bewitched his late brother Salim, but his tactical instincts remained in place: a strip search, a push-and-pull interrogation, the fateful ejection of some batteries from her alarm clock radio. She watched as he patiently constructed and connected all the elements of the suitcase bomb, as well as creating the wire doll that had become his calling card.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Picton and Kurtz. Photograph: Jonathan Olley/BBC/The Little Drummer Girl Distribution Limited.

While Charlie was being quietly assessed by Khalil, we got an extra helping of Charles Dance, huffing round the concrete campus of the target area. His commander, Picton, was willing to go along with Kurtz’s sting operation to thwart a bombing on his home turf but was clearly not very happy about it. “When the dust settles, I don’t want a whiff of you or your kind,” he snapped, with palpable venom. (Later, when belatedly discovering that Charlie was Kurtz’s asset, he was even more agitated: “You sneaky shit!”) But for all his bluster, Picton still helped Kurtz stage his most elaborate ruse to date: with the help of bloodied extras, an impressively big explosion and a pliant media, they created the fiction that Charlie’s bomb delivery had been successful, killing Minkel and injuring many more. How better to put Khalil off his guard than by convincing him that reality had yet again been shaped by his will?

After all its globetrotting intrigue and “theatre of the real” playing out in public spaces, the climax of The Little Drummer Girl saw its world shrink to just two people in a room. Charlie returned to Khalil with her rehearsed cover story in place and, via Becker’s instruction, an exit strategy ready to go: removing the batteries from her clock radio would bring his team crashing through the door. (“Cutting the signal will be the signal,” he advised, glumly.) The similarities between Becker (the veteran warrior) and Khalil (the patient tactician) were foregrounded: both wore Milk Tray Man rollnecks and mournful expressions. If that was not enough, Park Chan-wook shot them in split-screen to drive the point home: neither would concede, so the carnage would continue.

In the end, Khalil’s ingrained caution was his undoing. After a passionate night with Charlie – who, in the chilly early morning, seemed to weigh up the option of calling in the cavalry but instead stuck with her role – his survival instincts twitched when the milkman failed to show. His suspicions were heightened further when batteries miraculously reappeared in her rigged clock radio, although he was not to know that removing them would bring Becker crashing in swiftly followed by a hail of bullets. Kurtz’s dream of puppeteering Khalil’s future political career via his star asset was shattered. So was Charlie, crumpled and tearful by her dead target’s side.

With that, the curtain came down, and it came down particularly hard on Khalil’s allies. In a queasy montage, we saw his network “rolled up”, in the parlance: limping Captain Tayeh obliterated by a bunker-buster; Helga sniped in flagrante delicto in a forest; clammy lawyer Anton executed in his office; biker journo Rossino firebombed in his apartment; poor Fatmeh staring up at yet more death from above. Then we were back with Charlie, literally an actor resting between roles in a secure Israeli location with wonderful sea views and a high razor–wire–fenced perimeter. After a frosty debrief, the chances of her working with Kurtz again look slim but, after intercepting a message via cigarette carton, she travelled to Austria to reunite with Becker. Against all the odds, and despite their shared inner turmoil, Charlie and her scarred soldier seemed to get at least the hint of a happy ending.

Park’s performance review

Ahead of broadcast, the fact that south Korean auteur Park Chan-wook had signed on to direct all six episodes of The Little Drummer Girl immediately made it seem like must–see TV: this was the visionary who had turned Sarah Waters’s Victorian-set novel Fingersmith into a lavish, sensuous psychodrama set in 1930s Korea. While the final result was fluidly crafted – and, in comparison to most visions of the drab UK in the 1970s, gloriously and glamorously colourful – it never quite jumped the tracks of Sunday night prestige TV, even if Park’s deployment of brief fantasy sequences and use of point–of–view shots, particularly in the finale, gave it an artful edge.

Final spy notes and observations

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Becker. Photograph: Jonathan Olley/BBC/The Little Drummer Girl Distribution Limited.-------------------Google's DeepMind predicts 3D shapes of proteins






Having laid waste to the Atari classics and reached superhuman performance in chess and the Chinese board game, Go, Google’s DeepMind outfit has turned its artificial intelligence on one of the toughest problems in science.

The result, perhaps, was predictable. At an international conference in Cancun on Sunday, organisers announced that DeepMind’s latest AI program, AlphaFold, had beaten all-comers at a particularly fiendish task: predicting the 3D shapes of proteins, the fundamental molecules of life.

The arcane nature of “protein folding”, a mind-boggling form of molecular origami, is rarely discussed outside scientific circles, but it is a problem of profound importance. The machinery of biology is built from proteins and it a protein’s shape defines its function. Understand how proteins fold up and researchers could usher in a new era of scientific and medical progress.

Google 'betrays patient trust' with DeepMind Health move Read more

“For us, this is a really key moment,” said Demis Hassabis, co-founder and CEO of DeepMind. “This is a lighthouse project, our first major investment in terms of people and resources into a fundamental, very important, real-world scientific problem.”

DeepMind set its sights on protein folding after its AlphaGo program famously beat Lee Sedol, a champion Go player, in 2016. While games have proved to be a good testing ground for the group’s AI programs, high scores are not their ultimate goal. “It’s never been about cracking Go or Atari, it’s about developing algorithms for problems exactly like protein folding,” Hassabis said.

The human body can make vast numbers of different proteins, with estimates ranging from tens of thousands to billions. Each one is a chain of amino acids, of which there are 20 different types. A protein can twist and bend between each amino acid, so that a protein with hundreds of amino acids has the potential to take on a staggering number of different structures: around a googol cubed, or 1 followed by 300 zeroes.

The 3D form a protein adopts depends on the number and types of amino acids it contains. The shape also determines its role in the body. Heart cells, for example, are dotted with proteins folded in such a way that any adrenaline in the bloodstream sticks to them and ramps up the heart rate. Meanwhile, antibodies in the immune system are proteins that fold into specific shapes which latch onto invading bugs. Nearly every function in the body, from tensing muscles and sensing light to turning food into energy, can be traced back to the shape and movement of proteins.

Artificial intelligence tool 'as good as experts' at detecting eye problems Read more

Normally, proteins take on whatever shape is most energy efficient, but they can become tangled and misfolded, leading to disorders such as diabetes, Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease. If scientists can learn to predict a protein’s shape from its chemical makeup, they can work out what it does, how it might misfold and cause harm, and design new ones to fight diseases or perform other duties, like breaking down plastic pollution in the environment.

DeepMind entered AlphaFold into the Critical Assessment of Structure Prediction (CASP) competition, a biannual protein-folding olympics that attracts research groups from around the world. The aim of the competition is to predict the structures of proteins from lists of their amino acids which are sent to teams every few days over several months. The structures of these proteins have recently been cracked by laborious and costly traditional methods, but not made public. The team that submits the most accurate predictions wins.

On its first foray into the competition, AlphaFold topped a table of 98 entrants, predicting the most accurate structure for 25 out of 43 proteins, compared with three out of 43 for the second placed team in the same category.

To build AlphaFold, DeepMind trained a neural network on thousands of known proteins until it could predict 3D structures from amino acids alone. Given a new protein to work on, AlphaFold uses the neural network to predict the distances between pairs of amino acids, and the angles between the chemical bonds that connect them. In a second step, AlphaFold tweaks the draft structure to find the most energy-efficient arrangement. The program took a fortnight to predict its first protein structures, but now rattles them out in a couple of hours.

Liam McGuffin, a researcher at Reading University, led the highest-scoring UK academic group in the competition. “DeepMind appear to have pushed the bar higher this year and I’m intrigued to find out more about their methods,” he said. “We are not as well resourced, but we can still be very competitive.”

“The ability to predict the shape that any protein will fold in to is a big deal. It has major implications for solving many 21st-century problems, impacting on health, ecology, the environment and basically fixing anything that involves living systems.

“Many groups, including us, have been using machine learning-based methods for several years and improvements in deep learning and AI appear to be having an increasingly important impact. I’m optimistic that as a field we will really nail the problem in the 2020s,” McGuffin said.

Hassabis agrees there is far more to do. “We’ve not solved the protein folding problem, this is just a first step,” he said. “It’s a hugely challenging problem, but we have a good system and we have a tonne of ideas we haven’t implemented yet.”-------------------Doctor Who recap: Series 37, episode 9 – It Takes You Away






The Doctor stirs a touch of Scandi noir into the mix in the first episode of the series to really present a grand sci-fi concept

‘You’ve built a world you knew we’d like and taken forms we wouldn’t reject’

“Ah, nice fjord!” states Graham as the Doctor whizzes around tasting soil to ascertain the time and location the Tardis landed our gang in this time. It is hardly the most electrifying start to an episode from the writer Ed Hime (Skins), that points toward a generic cabin-in-the-woods romp with something monstrous stalking the hills. Oh, how quickly things change.

It Takes You Away boasts this year’s first truly grand sci-fi concept. Along with an artfully executed backdrop, clever twists, convincingly scary monsters and devastating emotional journeys.

There is also a nice dollop of Scandi noir in the mix as the Doctor finds a cottage in Norway in the winter with a chimney but no smoke, and all the windows boarded up. Inside, team Tardis come across a petrified young blind girl, Hanne, who needs help to find her father, who has been missing for four days. Before long, they are inspecting a mirror that is a portal, of course, but one that appears not to lead anywhere at all. Beyond it lies a mirrored universe: the same house, moved about a bit and occupied by some familiar faces.

A couple of impressive set pieces later, and the penny drops thanks to an old Gallifreyan fairytale of the Solitract, an all-seeing universe whose existence is at odds with our own. It’s one of those moments where Doctor Who gets to write its own science and say up yours to anyone who questions it. “Think of it like a kid with chicken pox,” warns the Doctor. “Nuclear chicken pox.” The Doctor is scared, which is never a good thing.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Cheeky boys: Ryan and Graham. Photograph: Simon Ridgway/BBC

‘This woman is clearly an alien force collapsing two realities, impersonating your dead wife. Tell her to move on, mate!’

Melancholy seeps through this episode like sap through a tree. The emotional lever is grief. Oh, Grace. We hardly knew your like. For a brief moment, both we and Graham are given hope that the spacey world of Doctor Who will grant them a happy ending, even though it was never to be.“Grace” is revealed as a Solitract construct by the ease with which she can leave Ryan in the anti-zone – the real Grace would never have done that. It is utterly harrowing, but we all knew that Grace was a wonderfully big-hearted character and that her death at the start of the series would lose any meaning if it were to be so easily undone. That said, the whole business resolves tensions between Graham and Ryan, the latter finally calling him “Grandad”.

Chiming against this is the parallel story of Hanne, Erik and Trina. Aside from Hanne being a badass and Erik a bit of a jerk, that storyline is left a little shallow. You could almost have done this episode without them. But the obvious moral still carries home: that you have to let go of the past to grab on to the future. Doctor Who doing sentimental properly is always a lovely, bittersweet thing.

Life aboard the Tardis

That big fist-pump moment with Graham aside, Ryan’s animosity towards Hanne seemed a little forced in. His grabbing her (albeit for her own protection) is uncomfortably physical. Apart from the grief and the tendency to be a silly little boy (remember his Call of Duty? moment), we had not seen all that much more below the surface from him and it felt like a bit of a way to get some material between him and Yaz, because he is rubbish with kids and she has had training. With so many characters, there hasn’t been so much interaction between them.

And Graham, bless him, is still a lovable dufus, with a routine of bringing sandwiches with him because mealtimes for team Tardis can be irregular. (It’s easier for the youngies, I suppose, and the Doctor will rarely be short of soil.)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Graham, Ryan and Yaz: time for a little more interaction. Photograph: Simon Ridgway/BBC

Fear factor

There’s another big tick in this category, too. The cabin-in-the-woods tropes are handled nicely. But the big bravo goes to the Flesh Moths, a simple idea to ground all the existential stuff behind the portal, and a chance for some fine action sequences.

Mysteries, questions and continuity

Yaz is proving no slouch when it comes to absorbing the Doctor’s scientific jargon. She suggests they “reverse the polarity”. A throwback to a throwaway line from Pertwee’s Three, “reverse the polarity of the neutron flow”, it somehow became a Doctor Who catchphrase.

And there is more fun with Timelord family dynamics; the Doctor had seven grandmothers, but Granny Five was her favourite.

Deeper into the Vortex

Basic error from the Solitract – if Hanne’s mum bought her the Arctic Monkeys T-shirt at their first gig in Oslo, how come it was of the cover to their 2013 album AM? Arctic Monkeys played Oslo on 6 May 2011 as part of the Suck It and See tour.

Turns out, eating soil actually is a thing.

“You turned your house into a fortress just to keep your daughter scared.” Yes, Erik is quite a jerk.

I would love to see the adventure of the Woolly Rebellion, and the “utter bloodbath” of a renegotiation between the human and sheep population.

With all else said, Frog-form Solitract with the voice of Grace is currently my everything.

Next week!

Finale time. The Battle Ranskoor Av Kolos does seem a bit of a mouthful for your big tentpole episode, but there you go. Alas, there is likely to be an overnight delay with the publishing of this column, since Grandmaster Chibnall has decreed that, for ultimate secrecy, nobody will be granted preview links. Boo!



-------------------Playwright Lynn Nottage: ‘We are a country that has lost our narrative’






As Sweat opens in London, the only female dramatist to win two Pulitzers talks about America’s left-behind, her intensive research – and why she’s writing about Michael Jackson next

It’s the day before Thanksgiving and Lynn Nottage has food to cook. But instead she is on the telephone, talking to me down a sputtering phone line. Nottage is an American playwright with a unique voice and an impeccable record: her play Ruined, from 2009, about Congolese women under threat of rape and violence in the civil war, won her a Pulitzer prize. Sweat, set in a bar in a decaying, deindustrialising US town, won her a second in 2017. She is the only woman to have won the Pulitzer for drama twice, which puts her in the ranks alongside Tennessee Williams, Thornton Wilder and August Wilson.

That achievement was remarkable in itself; Sweat is even more so. Set in Reading, Pennsylvania, where she spent two and a half years interviewing residents, much of the action takes place in a bar where steelworkers hang out. Nottage charts the shifts in their relationships, the resentments and fears that emerge as economic instability unravels the ecosystem of their lives. The play opened in New York’s Public Theater in 2016, days before the presidential election that resulted in Donald Trump. It seemed a prescient harbinger. The New York Times said: “It is the first work from a major American playwright to summon, with empathy and without judgment, the nationwide anxiety that helped put Donald J Trump in the White House.”

Born in Brooklyn, New York, Nottage, 54, lives in the same brownstone in Boerum Hill where she grew up, with her husband, Tony Gerber, a documentary film-maker, and her son, Melkamu, who is nine. Her daughter, Ruby, 21, is at college.

Nottage, whose father was a social worker and mother a teacher, grew up watching plays by the Negro Ensemble Company. She originally went to Brown University as a pre-med and it was only later that theatre called and she went to Yale School of Drama. She worked for Amnesty before turning her attention to writing full time. Now she is professor of playwriting at Columbia University.

Her work covers a wide range of subjects but is always on the side of the marginalised and dispossessed and tends to be inspired by a period of research. Her breakthrough, Intimate Apparel, which starred Viola Davis in its off-Broadway production in 2004, is about a black seamstress in early-20th century New York; Ruined arose from a trip to Uganda, where Nottage talked to women in refugee camps and demobilised soldiers from the Lord’s Resistance Army. Her most recent play, Mlima’s Tale, is about an elephant “trapped inside the clandestine international ivory market”.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘A prescient harbinger’: a scene from the 2016 production of Sweat at New York’s Public Theater. Photograph: Joan Marcus

Even down an uncertain telephone connection, I can hear the warmth and passion Nottage brings to her plays. She laughs frequently but talks with fluid eloquence about her writing and her concerns.

Why did you write Sweat?

I was commissioned by the Oregon Shakespeare festival, which was asking playwrights across the country to write about American revolutions. For a couple of years, I wasn’t sure which revolution I wanted to write about – the American civil war? The civil rights movement?

Then one evening I got an email from a friend sharing the fact that for a period of time she had been completely and absolutely broke. She was someone I knew quite well and saw regularly. I felt horrible that I had no idea she was struggling.

We can’t project our future because we don’t know where we are going

The next morning, we had a long conversation that coincided with the beginning of the first week of the Occupy Wall Street protest against economic inequality. So, these two middle-aged women went down there and chanted. Nothing changed, but at least she knew she was not alone.

To me, Occupy Wall Street raised a lot of questions that were not answered. That put me out on the street to figure out how economic stagnation was shifting the American narrative and how so many people who had so thoroughly invested in the American dream found themselves broadsided.

Why did you set Sweat in Reading, Pennsylvania?

I didn’t drive then and I had an assistant who didn’t drive, so we wanted some place we thought was reachable from New York. But because we don’t drive, we don’t read maps well and we underestimated the time it would take to travel. We ended up with the poorest city in America of its size – but which was three hours away.

One of the first questions we asked was, how do you describe your city? People would respond by saying: “Reading was… ” They were incredibly nostalgic for this glorious imagined past. It nearly broke my heart. I thought this is a city that cannot conceive of itself in the present or future tense. It is a microcosm of what is happening in America today. We are a country that has lost our narrative. We can’t project our future because we don’t know where we are going.

After about a year and a half of research, I met the steelworkers who would become the inspiration for the play – middle-aged white men who shared stories that absolutely broke my heart. I hadn’t anticipated I would be moved in the way I was. I hadn’t anticipated that, sitting with them in a circle, I would feel we had a shared narrative – one of struggle, disillusionment and frustration with our government and our society.

How do you transform your research into drama?

I push the research away and never look at it again until I finish the play. I don’t want the research to censor the way I shape my characters. What I create is very much a work of fiction. The characters are constructs of my imagination; they are inspired by some of the conversations I had but I really didn’t want them to be facsimiles of the people I spoke to.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest From left, Stuart McQuarrie, Leanne Best and Clare Perkins in rehearsals for Sweat at the Donmar Warehouse. Photograph: Johan Persson

A lot of American plays are set in a bar. Why did you choose one for your setting?

Bars are places where a lot of people retreat, a place where people go to unwind and they tell stories in ways they wouldn’t otherwise.

That’s the reason why there is this rich bar tradition in literature. People speak candidly once their tongues have been loosened by liquor. A bar is also a space where people can meet across age, race and gender. I was interested in that dynamic because the play explores the intersectionality between race, gender and class.

The New Yorker has called Sweat the first theatrical landmark of the Trump era and said it predicted his election. Were you surprised when he won?

All of us were shocked. But in some ways I understand how it happened. I was in the trenches and I saw the way the country was shifting. I saw a certain level of rage, particularly among the white working class, which, I knew, would express itself in some malignant way. When I was having conversations with people, a lot of the subtext, unspoken, was the white majority’s discomfort with diversity and inclusion. That’s why the play tells the story that it does.

The play has just toured across the rust belt. How did it go down?

After we closed the show on Broadway in 2017, we took it to Reading. We were all petrified because we thought, are we going to feel like interlopers? Is it going to feel authentic to them? But we were overwhelmed by the response.

People felt the conversation was really necessary and the play arrived at the right moment for them to receive it and then have a dialogue with it. I was shocked by how readily audiences who, by and large, had never entered a theatre before received the play and felt it was resonant of their own experiences. There were lots of tears; men standing up, crying, saying: “I needed this release, I needed to see this.”

Do you feel theatre has a role in effecting change in that way?

Not just theatre but art, particularly in times like these, has to reflect what is happening in the culture. Responsibility is not quite the right word, but I do think there is a role for us to play in asking difficult questions, reflecting back what we see. The New York Times asked, how did I see this when they didn’t. In this case, theatre can definitely play a role.

What do you feel about Trump?

How do I feel? I feel traumatised.

You are the only female playwright to win two Pulitzers, a feat that puts you up there with August Wilson and Tennessee Williams. How do you feel about that?

I have such respect for those two playwrights. Their work has been a lead line – like the one used to lead a child on a horse – for how I approach my own writing, so it is incredible to be in that company.

Why did you choose theatre?

Theatre was one of the art forms I had most engagement with as a child. I loved the energy and interaction and exchange that happens between the storytelling and the audience. As an individual, I am an introvert extrovert. I think by definition playwrights are people who are very comfortable in that solitary time, grappling with ideas, but once we finish those ideas, we crave company and people to expand and shape and wrestle those ideas into some larger form.

You live in the house where you grew up. I wonder if that rootedness gives you the freedom to fly imaginatively?

One of the things I talk about when I’m teaching is that, inevitably, the structure of the place where we arrive is shaped by the places where we grew up – very specifically by the architecture of our homes.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Saidah Arrika Ekulona and Russell Gebert Jones in a scene from Ruined by Lynn Nottage. Photograph: Joan Marcus/AP

I grew up in a brownstone in Brooklyn in a very cosmopolitan neighbourhood that would eventually become gentrified, in a house that was always semi-renovated. There was always the possibility that things would be fixed but they never quite were. It is still in that same state. Those are the kind of things I write about.

You tend to write about people who are ignored. Is that the common thread of your work?

I write about people who are marginalised because, as an African American woman, particularly now I am a middle-aged woman, I walk down the street and people will bump into me. To much of the population I am invisible. I had one experience, when I had my two children with me, and we were standing in line to pay and this young white man stepped in front of me. I said: “Excuse me?” And he said: “Oh my God, I didn’t see you there.”

Michael Jackson musical to hit Broadway in 2020 Read more

He was speaking on a much larger basis than that. He didn’t recognise my presence and I think that is why I write the stories that I write.

You have spoken about the difficulty of feeling you have to speak for your gender, race and class in a way white men are never required to do…

That is true. We feel this need to assert ourselves because we are absent in mainstream spaces, but at the same time feel the frustration that there is even a need to assert our voices. So that’s the paradox.

You are writing a musical about Michael Jackson. How did that happen?

I was approached by the producers who thought I might have an interesting take. I jumped at it because the first album I ever received was by the Jackson 5, and Off the Wall was probably the most important album of my high-school years.

The majority of my life I have dwelt in a not-for-profit world that gives you a certain level of freedom and now this is a commercial production. I am learning to negotiate a completely new space. Which is interesting. I believe wholeheartedly that every year you should do something that scares you.

Sweat is at the Donmar Warehouse, London WC2, from Friday to 26 January 2019-------------------Icon review – Antony Gormley's amazing feat of dancing, churning clay






Sculptor Antony Gormley is credited as the designer of this collaboration with choreographer Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui, but in reality he lets the dancers do the work. Over the course of an hour, three tonnes of clay are moulded, pounded and remoulded by their hands as Icon sets out to show how we create objects, communities and ideas, then destroy them and start all over again.

This is the UK debut for Sweden’s GöteborgsOperans Danskompani. They’re an impressive troupe, fully in tune with Cherkaoui’s earnest and often spiritual world. Dressed in monkish garb via Belgian high fashion (courtesy of Jan-Jan Van Essche), they are like people relocated from trivial real life into the rituals of some other plane: a cult, in essence, whose members are united by an intensity of purpose and a subsuming of the self into the group – and also into movement. Cherkaoui’s musical choices underline that spiritual tone, his love for haunting, ancient songs – in this case from the Mediterranean and Japan, the combination of nations adding up to somewhere otherworldly.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Pure urge … Patrick Seebacher and Janine Koertge in Icon. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian

It’s a habit of Cherkaoui to have one dancer, and then the whole company in unison, deliver a conversational lecture, a kind of TED talk, while posing arms and hands in rhythmic semaphore. It might be annoyingly mannered if it didn’t add an interesting layer to the themes. Here, the lecture is a Jason Silva text on cognitive framing – the art of remoulding ourselves through the way we perceive our experiences.

Dystopian Dream review – climbing the walls with Nitin Sawhney Read more

The dancers also deliver a paean to paying attention in the moment – “spontaneous flow” – which, when they’re not talking, seems to be exactly what’s happening to them, whether it’s the whole company pulled in waves by a strong undertow, or in some extraordinary writhing and melting solos where the dancers’ agency is seemingly replaced with a pure urge that hoicks, lashes and churns their bodies. Michael Munoz is especially thrilling, an extra inch of flex in every move.

For all the specificity of the text, and of the moulded props, which include baseball caps, cameras and cocktail glasses, Cherkaoui gracefully grazes the big themes. People are pliable. Cultures are built and obliterated. Nothing is really sacred. Everything can be remade.-------------------Ralegh: The Treason Trial review – out of favour and up for the chop






Sir Walter Raleigh (or Ralegh) probably never did lay his splendid cloak across that muddy puddle for Elizabeth I. But he was an arrogant swashbuckler and a military devotee of the Elizabethan anti-Spanish regime. So when Elizabeth was succeeded by the pacifistic James Stuart, Raleigh’s head was one of the first, ironically, on the chopping block. Oliver Chris has worked through the historical sources to put together this reconstruction of the poet-explorer’s 1603 show trial for treason, a glimpse into the pseudo legalism of authoritarian regimes both now and then.

There are many potential problems in such a project, and Chris navigates most, though not all of them, successfully. Much Tudor legal jargon is probably impenetrable to a non-specialist audience, though the point that despotic regimes will twist any constitutional statute comes across loud and clear. The candlelight in the Globe’s wood-panelled Wanamaker Playhouse beautifully helps to recreate the claustrophobia of Jacobean court life. The actors are dressed in contemporary business attire, which efficiently ties together the director’s intended lessons about past and present.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Always impressive … Nathalie Armin as Elizabeth Coke and Simon Paisley Day in Ralegh. Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the Guardian

Women are cast in key roles as Ralegh’s legal persecutors, which veils the extent to which James’s court operated as a patriarchy. But it gives us the always impressive Nathalie Armin as Elizabeth (as opposed to Edward) Coke, Raleigh’s chief prosecutor. If anyone can keep this language fresh and contemporary, it is Armin. She’s matched by Simon Paisley Day’s dignified, frail Ralegh – a faded war hero down to the limp.

The Model Apartment review – Diana Quick lifts up tale of broken American dreams Read more

Sporadically, phrases drop that resonate back and forth across history. James I’s virility is contrasted to the last years of Elizabeth, “a lady whom time hath surprised”; Ralegh denies being “a Robin Hood, a Wat Tyler, a Jack Cade”. But more historical context would have helped.-------------------The lowdown on British Columbia – this Canadian province is not to be missed






Eating and drinking

Chefs around the world adore BC for its incredible produce, from sweet spot prawns, celebrated in a festival each year at Vancouver’s Fisherman’s Wharf, to the juicy Okanagan cherries and peaches, which locals devour by the crate.

Start planning your trip by poring over online menus at stellar Vancouver restaurants such as chef Andrea Carlson’s Burdock & Co; Gastown go-to, French-influenced L’Abattoir; or the upmarket west coast take at Botanist. Alternatively, you can cook for yourself using top-quality ingredients from the ever-popular Granville Island Public Market.

Burdock & Co; brunch at L’Abbatoir

Going to Whistler? Don’t miss the skills of chef Melissa Craig at the Bearfoot Bistro, cosy up after a day on the slopes at the hearty Rimrock Café, and late night poutine and hot dogs at Zog’s Dogs is a hangover-swerving tradition not to be missed.

If you’re heading to Vancouver Island, drink in views of the storm-tossed beach – and cedar-infused whisky sours – at the On the Rocks bar at the Wickaninnish Inn, in Tofino, and make a trip to the original Tacofino food truck there for Baja-style fish tacos.

In Victoria, sip a G’n’T with colour-changing Empress gin infused with pea blossom at the Q bar at the Fairmont Empress, or enjoy a traditional afternoon tea service; soak up the elegant, wood-panelled ambiance at The Courtney Room at the Magnolia Hotel; or taste locally inspired flavourful creations at Agrius.

Culture vultures

Summertime rocks in BC: the Salmon Arm Roots and Blues festival is three days of performances from established and rising stars. Love boutique festivals? Then Basscoast in Merritt may be your jam; run entirely by women, it’s all about electronic and psychedelic music, art, DJs and good times.

Basscoast festival in 2018

The alcohol-free Shambhala festival at Salmo River Ranch is a late-night groovefest with DJs and stunning costumes in the heart of BC. New in September 2018, the Skookum Festival in the heart of Vancouver saw big names including Florence + the Machine and the Killers headlining a three-day romp in Stanley Park.

With some 634 different First Nations in Canada, along with Métis and Inuit Peoples, and each with their own distinct traditional knowledge, their culture and heritage is a whole world to discover. Make a start at Whistler’s Squamish Lil’Wat Cultural Centre on a guided tour with a First Nations ambassador, then visit the incredible Audain Art Museum to browse art from the late 18th century to the present day with a focus on indigenous artists of the region. In Northern BC, don’t miss a visit to the Haida Heritage Centre in Skidegate, which showcases the lifestyle and artefacts of the Haida people.

Out and about

Step aboard a helicopter to spend a few days at a wilderness lodge on a heli-hiking adventure in the Cariboo mountains; be part of a small group of people to experience the beauty of wildflowers in bloom in hidden alpine meadows, and view glaciers and top-of-the-world peaks on a flightseeing tour.

Grizzly bear cubs chasing salmon in the Great Bear Rainforest

Journey into the Great Bear Rainforest for a true wilderness experience, guided by a wildlife biologist. By day spot grizzlies (from a safe distance!), by night feast on gourmet meals and sleep soundly in a cosy floating lodge. View grey whales, humpbacks, orcas and more on a whale watching tour in Prince Rupert; and for a different outdoor experience, try forest bathing among the vast Douglas firs in beautiful Cathedral Grove on Vancouver Island. And what better way to take in the stunning scenery of the Sea to Sky Highway linking Vancouver to Whistler, than in a classic Porsche.

Panoramic views on the Sea to Sky Highway

A province for all seasons

British Columbia: the ultimate 10-day itinerary Read more

Springtime in Vancouver brings a riot of flowers; take part in the Sakura Festival and celebrate the fleeting beauty of the cherry blossoms. Spring, along with summer, is also the best time to see whales in BC. Take a trip from Victoria, one of North America’s best whale-watching spots, to see orca pods, humpbacks and grey whales, as well as sea lions, dolphins and porpoises.

In Whistler, the ski runs are open until the end of May – however, high above on the glacier, you can ski and board into July. In summer, Whistler transforms to a mountain biker’s dream.

Summer is also a great time to visit the Pacific Rim national park – you can hike through the rainforest, surf the Pacific waves or just take it easy with some gentle beach strolls. Book a cosy oTENTik – half tent, half A-frame cabin – to really immerse yourself in the experience of the park.

In summer, mountain biking in Whistler; in winter, try a dip in a hot spring

Enjoy harvest season in the Okanagan visiting wineries such as organic and biodynamic Summerhill, where wines are aged in a scale model of the Great Pyramid of Giza. Admire the autumn colours in Nelson, a quirky mountain town with a thriving mountain bike culture, and soak up the last of the year’s sunshine, paddle-boarding on the lake.

BC may be famous for its Olympic-level ski resort of Whistler Blackcomb, but there are 13 other major resorts and 10 mountain ranges to pick from with terrain for all levels, from expert on the legendary Powder Highway, to family-friendly at SilverStar. Keep warm by following the hot springs trail in the Kootenays to Nakusp and Ainsworth, or take a trip from Vancouver for an overnight stay in Harrison Hot Springs. Get cosy storm watching in Tofino, Ucluelet or Port Renfrew, watching breakers smash on the beach as you stay blanketed indoors, sipping hot chocolate spiked with rum.

Discover why British Columbia should be your next holiday destination with Canadian Affair-------------------Seating plans, playlists and cockle popcorn: how to host this Christmas






The nights have drawn in, George and Mariah are in a state of perpetual soundclash, and with them comes the unsettling urge to host a seasonal get-together.

If you’re an unsteady host, even an intimate dinner with a handful of friends can seem daunting, so when you chuck in the plus-ones, her next door and a cluster of colleagues, that “fun and festive” party can start to feel anything but.

But things don’t need to get all out of control and Abigail’s Party. We live in a time when fine dining and Michelin-starred chefs appear in the most casual of settings, and that informality extends to the at-home-host, too. Claude Bosi - head chef of Bibendum restaurant and Rémy Martin cognac bar – is one such Michelin-starred chef who advocates this relaxed approach when entertaining.

“The key to a great party,” he says, “is to ensure you are with your guests. There are so many dinner parties where you try to impress and find yourself spending more time in the kitchen than you spend with your guests. A great party is a balance between good food and good hospitality.”

Here’s how it’s done:

The dinner party

This casual mantra starts at the top – the formalities of the past have been dispensed with. Invites can go out on WhatsApp or email. Similarly, boy-girl seating plans at dinner are a relic of another time. Remember, too, if there are only two single guests at a dinner party, they don’t necessarily want to be seated together, lest they feel like show ponies being watched over by the other guests for signs of good chemistry. And unless you have a particular gift for crafting, there’s no need for place names.

That said, some small details done nicely can make a real difference. Take your dinner table, for example, as chef and caterer Stephanie Boote says: “I like a simple table, not too much fuss. A linen cloth can be lovely, napkins, if you have them. A couple of little vases or bottles with flowers or foliage. Candlelight is a must. You can have a pile of plates and cutlery on top of an undressed table, a water jug and a stack of glasses, and if you have candles lit it will all be just fine!”

There are lots of ways to make life easier as you prep your dinner-party meal, especially as your guests arrive and the heat rises in the kitchen. For Bosi, a neat trick is to go for a cold starter. He suggests getting a terrine from a local deli and serving it with a salad, all handily ready to go on plates ahead of time.

Food writer and author Killian Fox offers similar logic when feeding a crowd. “Simplify,” he says. “Instead of a starter, lay out a range of snacks – decent crisps and dips, olives, maybe some crostini – for people to eat when they come through the door. Use the time you’ve saved to make sure everyone has enough booze.”

Drinks are, of course, key to a great dinner party. Leave time at the beginning for an aperitif, which will give you more breathing room to prepare your food, take account of inevitable late arrivals (“our Uber kept cancelling”) and let appetites build.

Fox suggests a handy seasonal cocktail, too, named London Calling. “It was apparently devised at Milk & Honey in Soho. It’s citrussy, it contains sherry, and it gives you a chance to look classy with a cocktail shaker. A fine Christmas drink.”

Bosi suggests a drink can offer some surprises and lead to unexpected food pairings. He likes a Royal Sidecar, made with Rémy Martin 1738 Accord Royal cognac, Cointreau and lemon – and paired with oysters.

“Until recently, cognac was something you would have after a great lunch,” he says. “It’s not something you’re expecting to drink at the start of the meal, but I find it goes very well with seafood. It’s a nice surprise, a bit of creativity. At that moment, you’ve made people really relaxed and given your meal a stamp of quality.”

From then on, you can go with some classic dishes: a big joint of meat, a casserole that can be easily cooked in advance, a beautiful stew with game, or Bosi’s festive favourite: beef wellington.

When it comes to serving, Bosi tends to stick to sharing plates. “I put pots in the middle of the table and we start sharing,” he says. “I think dinner parties with people closer to each other are a better atmosphere.”

Boote adds a word of practical advice: “Preparation is key. Your guests are here to see you, not have you run about trying to do things. Keep it simple, with excellent ingredients that speak for themselves.”

Dinner party music has long been something of a slur, a byword for a pleasant but bland background soundtrack. But you don’t want to be sitting in silence accompanied only by the sound of mastication and scraping forks, so head to Spotify to put together some playlists.

For dinner, you want something that is eclectic but not too distracting – you don’t want to be continually flicking to the next song. However, you also don’t want to drift into nondescript tastefulness, either.

The drinks party

Interesting people, nice snacks, some decent tunes and plenty of booze is all that’s needed for a drinks party. Keep things loose – this means submitting to the inevitable and assuming a crowd will congregate in your kitchen. Be ready to push some seats away in the living room if a late dance party emerges.

First impressions, exes and smooth exits: master the art of conversation Read more

When it comes to the drinks, try to be creative, says Boote: “This year, we have made a fig leaf syrup to go with lime juice, gin and soda. It’s delicious without the gin, too.” She follows that adding clementine flavours and fizz to spirits makes any drink feel “festive and delicious”.

Of course, guests will be looking for something to nibble on, so lay out some decent crisps, popcorn or olives.

You can also add some more expansive finger food into the mix. Boote goes for gougères, a French choux pastry filled with cheese, while Bosi will be serving up some intriguing offerings: Rémy Martin cognac, mixed with tonic (a Rémy Grand Tonic – the French spin on the British classic), served with his “pickled cockle popcorn”. The cockles are rolled in flour then deep-fried in hot oil, coming out as if popcorn. “It’s a fantastic pairing,” he says. To give it a seasonal twist, add some clove or orange to the cognac.

Fox offers a snack serving with a backstory: “The Gilda – a pintxo created in honour of Rita Hayworth, who starred in the film Gilda. It’s pretty easy: skewer a couple of green olives on a toothpick with guindilla peppers and an anchovy fillet.”

You want to keep the music equally eclectic but a little more upbeat. However, don’t feel the need to overload it with bangers and floor fillers. If the party goes late, you can bring out the hits. Remember to let a few people try out their music selections – it’s never fun to be overprotective of the music at a party, nor do you want one person hogging the speaker. Finally, if things take a particularly boozy turn, fire up some karaoke through YouTube.

And finally …

Really, there’s no set formula. Follow your instincts, embrace comfort and concentrate on having fun. And, if in doubt, remember some salient words from Bosi:

“Just don’t try too hard. Don’t try to impress is the wrong thing to say – you want to impress – but stay in your comfort zone. Stay comfortable, enjoy yourself, keep it simple – and have a good time.”

Make like Bosi and kick off that good time with a Royal Sidecar or Rémy Grand Tonic of your own – buy a bottle here-------------------Training for the slopes: six of the best Eurostar snow breaks






Travel on a Friday to enjoy Saturday’s empty slopes. Photograph: Peter Cade/Getty Images

Travelling with skiing or snowboarding equipment can be a bit of an effort, particularly if you’re swapping between buses, trains and planes. Take a simpler, more direct route to the Alps by hopping on the Eurostar at London St Pancras International or Ashford. Arrive on a Friday night and you can even take advantage of a quiet Saturday on the slopes, when the package deals have their changeover day.

From parties on the piste to chilled-out kid-friendly zones, these six Alpine options – all easily reached from the Eurostar Ski train destinations of Moutiers or Bourg-Saint-Maurice – cater for every brand of snow fiend.

1 Val Thorens

Ski trips used to be all about heavy eating and heavy drinking, but Val Thorens, the highest resort in Europe, is trying to upend tradition and forge forwards as a foodie and wellness destination. At the higher end, that means Michelin-starred chefs incorporating healthier, plant-based options into their menus, but it runs right through to cafes such as Supernova and Alpen Art, which specialise in clean, green cooking. Ski Cool, one of the oldest ski and snowboard schools in the resort, incorporates mindfulness teaching to ease anxiety during lessons. Group ski lessons start from €42 (£37) per person. Val Thorens is part of the Three Valleys ski area, which means you can ski across to Courchevel and Meribel. The snow quality is reliably great, and all levels of skier and snowboarder are well catered for.

Getting there: Alight at Moutiers, then take a bus (about 75 minutes) to Val Thorens or a taxi (about 50 minutes)

2 Sainte Foy

Skiing in Sainte Foy is like stumbling upon a secret parallel world you never knew existed – the slopes are quiet, the lift queues non-existent, and snowy forests and stunning mountain views dominate your eyeline. This small, pretty resort is not a place to come if you like to party, but it’s a great choice for families, and skiers and snowboarders who want to progress on wide, empty pistes. There are some enjoyable red runs for intermediates, while more advanced skiers and snowboarders will love the off-piste options, which include some of the best freeride terrain in the Alps. A six-day lift pass costs less than €175 (£155), about £100 less than you’d pay at Three Valleys. Of course, you get a far smaller ski area for your money, but it’s still fantastic value for a resort as good as this.

Getting there: Alight at Bourg-St-Maurice, then take a bus to Sainte Foy (about 25 minutes) or a taxi (about 15-20 minutes)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest La Rosière’s south-facing slopes make it a sunny destination. Photograph: JACQUES Pierre/hemis.fr/Getty Images

3 La Rosière

Last winter was a bumper season for many Alpine resorts, but it was La Rosière that recorded the highest snowfall in France. Great ski conditions aren’t a one-off here, thanks to the resort’s high altitude and its predominantly south-facing – and therefore sunny – slopes. It’s a family friendly resort and kids will enjoy skiing through the trees and tunnels on the Little Saint-Bernard Funcross adventure trail. Beginners are well served with blues and greens, while intermediate and advanced adults will love the newly opened Mont Valaisan freeride sector. It includes five new red runs and ample in-bounds ungroomed terrain, as well as amazing views of Mont Blanc. Ski across the border for authentic and good value Italian antipasti or a pizza lunch, then head back to the resort to enjoy the ice rink and a dog sledding circuit through the forest.

Getting there: Alight at Bourg-St-Maurice, then take a bus (about 45 minutes) or a taxi (about 40 minutes) to La Rosière

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Set at a high altitude, Tignes is all but guaranteed to have good snow. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo

4 Tignes

This purpose-built resort may not be the prettiest in the French Alps, but what it lacks in cuteness it more than makes up for in convenience, taking the concept of ski-in ski-out to a whole new level. Set at a high altitude of 2,100 metres, its high-quality snow conditions are all but guaranteed; it offers fantastic skiing and snowboarding for all levels, plus access to the vast Espace Killy network with around 150 pistes. Tignes has good food options for a range of budgets, from reasonable rotisserie chicken at Les Poulettes, to Ursus, a fine-dining restaurant in an indoor forest. It also has a super-fun après-ski scene, the kind more readily associated with Austrian resorts, which is sure to get even wilder this winter with the addition of Le Cocorico, a new open-air terrace with live DJ sets in Tignes Val Claret. Thrill seekers will love the Bun J Ride, where, with the help of cords and zip-wire, you can launch yourself off a massive ski jump in complete safety.

Getting there: Alight at Bourg-St-Maurice, then take a bus (about 65 minutes) to Tignes or a taxi (about 35-50 minutes)

5 Les Arcs

Set across five traffic-free villages, Les Arcs is part of the huge Paradiski area that links up with La Plagne. All levels of skier and snowboarder are well served here. Freestyle snowboarders will love the Apocalypse Park, while more advanced skiers and snowboarders can enjoy the 7km Aiguille Rouge run, one of the most iconic off-piste routes in Europe. The top of the Aiguille Rouge has a new glass-walled footbridge with wonderful views of the Alpine chain and Villaroger nature reserve. There’s also a new parallel slalom run, where you can film yourself racing your friends, and an airbag jump for practising those all-important freestyle moves. At the end of March, Les Arcs hosts the popular European Gay Ski Week.

Getting there: Alight at Bourg-St-Maurice, then take the funicular direct to Arc 1600 (7 minutes), or take a bus (30-50 minutes), or a taxi (20-40 minutes)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Freestyle snowboarders will love Les Arcs. Photograph: Alamy Stock Photo

6 Moûtiers

The historic town of Moûtiers is a good base for first-time skiers. It’s not actually a ski centre itself, but is within easy reach of Courchevel, Méribel, and Val Thorens, so those new to the sport can book a holiday safe in the knowledge that they’re not stuck up a snowy mountain if the sport isn’t for them. Visitors can also take advantage of different resorts on different days, as they all fall within the Three Valleys lift pass area. The town itself has a Museum of Popular Traditions, which shows how the rural people of the Tarentaise valley used to live, plus an ice rink and cinema. The best local swimming pool is Aqua Motion at the base of Courchevel, which also has a spa. The nearby Hautecour Arts Trail is a gentle year-round hike with outdoor sculptures, and the Vanoise national park and glacial Isère River are also great for winter hiking.

Getting there: Alight at Moûtiers

48 hours in Brussels: what to see, plus the best bars and restaurants Read more

Need to know

From 23 December 2018 to 31 March 2019, direct day ski trains run from St Pancras and Ashford to the French Alps. The return legs operate from 29 December 2018 to 6 April 2019. The outbound journey leaves London at 9.45am, arriving in Moûtiers by 6.30pm that evening and Bourg-St-Maurice just after 7pm.

Night trains run from St Pancras and Ashford from 21 December 2018 to 29 March 2019. They depart from London just before 8pm arriving in Moûtiers around 5.30am and Bourg-St-Maurice just after 6.15am. Alcohol is no longer allowed on board these night services and, though the seats are roomy and comfy, it’s worth noting there are no sleeper bunks.

Travellers can bring their skis or snowboard for free on top of their regular two-bag allowance.

For more info visit eurostar.com/uk-en/train/france/ski-train-------------------Quiz: litty, shook or goat – can you talk tween?






Would these litty kids cancel you? Photograph: Lumina/Stocksy United

A recent Tesco Mobile survey of 1,000 parents found that 46% of them bought their children phones in the hope that they’d communicate with them more. But what if they can’t understand what their child is saying?

Somehow, each generation discovers a new way to say old things, baffling parents, teachers and older relatives in the process. So, in an era of “bible”, “cray” and “salty” having nothing to do with Christianity, crustaceans or culinary seasoning, can you talk tween?

Take the quiz to find out.

The work experience student who’s with you for the week (and was born in 2004) smiles at you over the percolator in the staff kitchen and says: “Let’s get this bread.” What do they mean? They fancy a trip to Pret a Manger. They want to make some money. Bread, dough etc. We’ll start easy – it’s all money. They’ve been watching too much Great British Bake Off. Your 12-year-old daughter has been invited to a sleepover. She says it’s going to be “litty” – does she mean: It’s going to be boring. Her friend’s bedroom will be brightly lit. It’s going to be very good and she’s excited. A play on “lit”, which refers to something being pumped up or exciting (and not to be confused with the 1940s usage, which relates to being intoxicated). Ahead of their school disco, your daughter’s friend tells her she’s “looking snatched”. What does she mean? Your daughter looks attractive. Possibly adopted from the gay community. Etymology unknown. Her photos make it look like she’s being held hostage. Her clothes look like they’ve been stolen. You hear your son talking about his “Finstagram” with his friends – does this mean: He runs an Instagram fan account dedicated to fish. He is finished with Instagram and no longer uses it. He has a second Instagram account for close friends, to which he posts only funny or embarrassing content. A compound word, derived from “Fake” and “Instagram”, but really referring to any secondary account. You overhear two of your daughter’s female friends say they “ship” your daughter and a boy she has a crush on at school. Does this mean: They endorse a romantic relationship between the pair. Possibly borrowed from the fanfiction community, in which people “ship”, or desire to see, a relationship that doesn’t exist in the original material. They’ve bought them each a toy boat as a gift. They don’t think your daughter and the boy are well suited. Your 13-year-old son is attempting to "cancel" his classmate over a politically incorrect Snapchat update – does this mean? He has reported his classmate to Snapchat’s moderators. He’s worried about his friend’s excessive Snapchat usage and is encouraging him to take a break. He’s rejecting his classmate and trying to socially exclude him, rather than engaging intelligently with the offensive comment. Pretty straightforward – just a slight semantic reimagining. Your 11-year-old daughter says she is “shook” after getting her English test results back from her teacher. She feels: Shocked and amazed at how badly she did. One that’s back in fashion with the kids. Similar usage to in Elvis Presley’s All Shook Up. Unsurprised, given that she has been sending her friends memes on Instagram all week rather than studying. Quite pleased – she didn’t do well, but at least she didn’t fail. A girl from your tweenage daughter’s netball club has apparently been “spilling tea” during weekly practice. This means: She was particularly clumsy when serving up the post-match refreshments. She shot some impressive goals from her goal attack position. She’s been gossiping and/or spreading other people’s personal information to the rest of the team. Much like spilling the beans, presumably. Your son describes his friend as the “goat” based on his goalkeeping skills during the day’s football match in the playground. He believes his friend is: An amazing player. Like, the best ever. Literally, the Greatest Of All Time. See also: Lionel Messi. A terrible goalkeeper – like having an actual goat between the posts. Going to need some more practice but put in a solid effort. You got… You’re gonna need to finesse your slang. Hundo P. I don’t want to be salty, but that was just v bad. Gucci. That was high key. You’re the goat. Challenge your friends Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Share via Email Submit answers

Visit Tesco Mobile for more information and content on families and mobile-------------------Yoga v pilates: both are popular, but which would work best for you?






Increasing stress levels and growing awareness of wellbeing have contributed to the success of both forms of exercise. But their benefits depend on your body type and temperament

Yoga may have taken 5,000 years to evolve into a western phenomenon, but its 21st-century profile has rocketed at lightning speed. The number of US practitioners has doubled in just a few years, reaching 37 million in 2016, while there are half a million in the UK. The global market is estimated at $80bn (£62bn).

Pilates, yoga’s more modern associate, has seen similarly rapid growth since it was devised almost 100 years ago. Increasing stress levels, coupled with a greater focus on physical health and wellbeing, are cited as factors in the growth of both, as well as celebrity endorsements – Madonna and Geri Halliwell have long sworn allegiance to yoga, while Beyoncé and Emma Stone fly the flag for pilates.

But despite the longevity and global popularity, confusion persists about yoga and pilates, compounded by the increasing variety of classes offered in each discipline. Ashtanga, iyengar and vinyasa are all considered relatively modern incarnations of yoga; inevitably new variants of pilates have sprung up, too, as the market has become more commercialised. Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, whose mother, Doria Ragland, is a yoga teacher, is a fan of Megaformer – a souped-up version of reformer pilates – while gyrotonic yoga is credited with helping Andy Murray with his longstanding back issues.

Teachers of both yoga and pilates say they are routinely asked to explain the difference between them. “The simple answer is that they’re both low intensity, low impact and inclusive, unlike many other forms of exercise,” says Prof Greg Whyte, a former Olympian and now leading authority on sports science. “Generally speaking, yoga is much more about flexibility and stability, pilates is strength and stability.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘Pilates is not a spiritual pursuit, its origins are rooted in healing and rehabilitation.’ Photograph: Getty/iStockphoto

But, for every flashy gym offering yoga classes to burn calories and sculpt bodies, there are many more teachers committed to its traditional spiritual principles. Yoga was originally practised by holy ascetics in India, its aim to focus the mind, connect with a higher consciousness and, through this newfound compassion, end suffering in the world.

For Lily Silverton, a fashion editor turned yoga teacher, it is a way of life that demands she practise social value. “I strongly believe that in yoga, you’re in service,” she says, giving as an example her voluntary work with mental-health and refugee charities, homeless people and children with special needs.

Jonelle Lewis, this month’s Om Yoga magazine cover star, describes teaching yoga as a form of stewardship. “These are not my teachings,” she says. “These are lineage teachings that we have the honour to pass on to people.”

Although pilates is not a spiritual pursuit, its origins are rooted in healing and rehabilitation. Its German inventor, Joseph Pilates, relocated to England in 1912 and, as war broke out, was interned with other Germans working in a hospital on the Isle of Man. It was here that he invented the beginnings of his reformer, cadillac and chair equipment, using springs to help bed-bound patients develop their muscles.

That tradition continues to this day. Laura Browning Grant, a pilates teacher in North Carolina, gained a huge following on social media for using pilates techniques to rehabilitate her husband, Jonny, a former Navy Seal who suffered a traumatic brain injury in a car crash. Grant has written about the power of pilates for both physical and mental wellbeing.

“I have worked with individuals that have experienced trauma, causing emotional and physical damage,” she writes. “Using the pilates method, many were able to regain a sense of balance in their life.”

Suzi Power teaches yoga and pilates at the community studio East of Eden in London, and sees the benefits of both. She advocates pilates as a safer option for those prone to injury, or those who are exploring this type of exercise for the first time. “I trained in yoga first, but I was drawn to pilates reformer because I had a yoga injury. Pilates helped me to rehabilitate.”

Yoga uses the body to connect with the mind and the inner self, while pilates uses mindfulness to connect to the inner workings of the body. “I practise both and love both – I think they complement each other well,” says Lottie Murphy, a former ballet dancer, now pilates teacher. “The main difference is the focus on the spiritual element in yoga. Some of the actual poses are similar – in pilates, we do the elephant, which is basically downward dog, and also backbends. It’s just that in pilates, we tend to build up to some of those moves more slowly than you might in yoga.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The adho mukha svanasana yoga pose. Photograph: Elizabeth Fernandez/Getty

Interestingly, the NHS does not count either practise towards its recommended target of 150 minutes of moderate activity per week (although it does count towards muscle strengthening), but the more dynamic forms of yoga do offer a cardiovascular workout. “I’d love to get someone from the NHS down to a dynamic flow class, or rocket yoga, where you come out dripping with sweat,” says Ruth Tongue, a pilates teacher of 10 years and yoga fan.

Be warned, however, the more dynamic forms are not recommended for beginners. “They move very quickly, so there’s potential for damage to joints,” says Silverton. “Both pilates and yoga target muscle groups that you won’t access in many other forms of exercise. You can be an incredibly fit runner or boxer and come out of a yoga or pilates class in agony because you’ve worked muscles you don’t usually engage.”

As the skinny, immaculate white women who pop up in a Google image search go to show, the stereotype is that yoga is squarely aimed at those with privilege. Lewis, a rare woman of colour in the industry’s spotlight, is understandably frustrated that the practice’s roots in Indian spirituality have been all but erased from its public image.

“Yoga is for everyone,” she says. “I don’t know a single person who wouldn’t benefit from being able to breathe more deeply, have more mental space and put ease into their body. But you look in the media, or go into a yoga studio – even in London – and it’s all vanilla.”

Tongue, whose clients include Charlton women’s football team, is equally frustrated by the Instagram imagery of pilates. “I don’t teach any classes where people turn up in crop tops. I mainly teach older people, often in their 70s. They’re really strong and they love it.”

When professional athletes come to Whyte asking about yoga and pilates, which discipline does he recommend? “Often I suggest a combination of the two. Pilates has become the mainstay of rehab, particularly for back problems. But it’s also great for other conditions, such as urinary incontinence. You’re focusing on the core, whereas yoga tends to be more the whole body.

“Both are great in pregnancy, although the key advice to remember is that pregnant women should look to maintain fitness, not improve it. Maintenance of range of motion is fine; overstretching is problematic.”

If you are hypermobile – that’s when joints stretch further than they should – the consensus is to try pilates first, and to approach yoga with caution. “You can do yoga and be hypermobile,” says Silverton, who is hypermobile herself; “You just have to be very careful. Let your teacher know, don’t push to your maximum, and keep a microbend in the knees and elbows when you practise.”

Ultimately, it might just be down to personal preference. Power says the choice is as much in the mind as the body. “People who are more logical tend to like pilates, creative people tend to like yoga. My partner is an accountant and he can’t stand yoga – it’s too hippy for him – but he likes pilates.

“People with a creative brain often find more freedom in yoga.”-------------------I love being a mother – it's just the word that bothers me






Over the past few months, every time I’ve tentatively raised the subject I’m going to tell you about with friends, family or acquaintances, I’ve been met with a sharp intake of breath. “Really?” they ask, tilting their heads quizzically. Occasionally a look of concern flashes across their faces. “Is she serious? She has kids. Has something happened?”

Nothing has happened and, yes, I am serious. I just don’t like the word “mother”, that’s all.

I am aware, of course, that by an inescapable biological fact I am one, with my two daughters: Rose aged four and a half and Thea, four months. I love them – deeply and intensely. And it’s a part of my personal life that couldn’t bring me more joy. I don’t even mind hearing “Mummy” whined at me about 200 times a day.

No, it’s not being a mother I don’t like, it is being a “mother”.

For it was as if the minute I had Rose, I had been conferred some kind of generic identity, with the same generic needs and wants as all other mothers. It was a society-defined term, with society-defined generalisations. How I was going to feel as soon as I “became one”. What I needed to buy, as a mother, to meet expectations. The way my life, from this point on, was going to pan out. Who I was now going to become, now that my life was no longer all my own.

The ferocity with which this new identity felt like it was being thrust upon me – I was now a “mama” who surely was going to want to abandon my old life to focus entirely on my new family, right? – couldn’t have been further from what my husband was experiencing as a new father. His was a role he could wear lightly, one he could learn to define for himself, alongside his other commitments. There were no products he had to buy, no books to read, no new personality to subsume. But becoming a mother? It felt loaded, all-encompassing and, to me, uncomfortable. Not positive, or powerful, or equal.

It also felt clichéd. Even today, even with so much effort focused on achieving gender equality, the language around mothers is so stereotypical – we “care”, “juggle”, “wing it” or “do it all” (and even if we “own” these words, they still exist), whereas fathers “provide” or “entertain”, rather than “divide” and “share”.

And while words might not seem like much, I know from the job I do as a writer and editor that the casual, throwaway way in which we use language helps shape our culture and expectations. Whether we like it or not, we often become the terms that seek to define us. Right from the very start, as a result of all this, while I loved my daughter with every part of me, I struggled with being a mother.

Before I continue, I am fully aware of just how loaded and emotive motherhood is. How difficult, provocative and upsetting this may sound for some women – those who have been through immense trauma or struggles in order to call themselves, and be, a mother. Those who long to have this identity, but yet may never be able to, for various reasons. Those who have shunned motherhood and are possibly fed up of being surrounded by it. And those for whom it is their vocation, their love, the centre of their world.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Mum-to-be: Slick Woods on the Savage x Fenty catwalk on the day she went into labour. Photograph: Vikram Valluri/BFA/REX/Shutterstock

So who am I to take issue with the word? And whatever my own personal feelings, I’m wrong, surely? Because, arguably, there’s never been a better time to be a mother. Gone are the days when having a child meant the end of your career – Serena Williams, Helena Morrissey, Net-a-Porter founder Natalie Massenet and current president Alison Loehnis, Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and Nicola Mendelsohn are just a few of the many visible women showing us how you achieve success at home and at work.

Our Instagram feeds are filled with inspiring and realistic “mum” role models, delivering us every conceivable and relatable version of motherhood you could imagine: @mother_of_daughters, @scummymummies, @selfishmother, @honestmum, @dresslikeamum, with nearly 1 million followers between them. And #motherhood with its 12m posts and rising is our space in which to share our challenges, highs and lows, and speak to other women going through what we are. It’s also our platform to showcase our individual takes on this particular life stage or find the “tribe” that reflects us best.

Then there are the women making motherhood profitable – Michelle Kennedy, founder of “mum” friendship app Peanut and the women behind similar app Mush, as well as Molly Gunn, who has turned Selfish Mother into a thriving clothing business, where we can wear various slogans of motherhood proudly across our chests.

Want to write a book? Make it about motherhood and you’re on to a winner! From Sheila Heti’s acclaimed novel Motherhood and Angela Garbes’s non-fiction feminist book Like a Mother, to manuals on how to birth, there have been more than 30 published this year with the word “mother” in the title.

Suddenly I’d turned from an individual into part of a group

And fashion – the industry I have worked in for the past six years, first as deputy editor of Elle and then as editor of Grazia until February this year – has made motherhood “cool”. It’s been sexualised on the catwalks for a while now, with pregnant models often showcasing their bumps in barely there lingerie, and in September this year with the appearance of Slick Woods at Rihanna’s Savage x Fenty show, nine months pregnant and (she revealed later) having contractions. And at the recent Marine Serre show in New York, motherhood was celebrated – with models wearing their babies, proudly and defiantly, in slings that matched their jumpsuits.

While fashion shows might seem easy to dismiss, thanks to their often headline-grabbing showmanship, the influence the industry commands is huge. British and German Vogue now run online columns on motherhood and a number of fashion’s greatest social media influencers have recently or are about to become mums – Susie Lau, Pandora Sykes and Giovanna Battaglia, to name a few – and are using their platforms to showcase pre- and post-birth style, as well as the daily travails of new parenthood.

Whether we like it or not, motherhood is in, and we are being sold the message that being a mother doesn’t have to hinder us. It can be cool, sexy and even financially lucrative. In fact, the figures are staggering – with “mumpreneurs” now expected to contribute £9.4bn to the UK economy by 2025 (up from £7.4bn in 2015).

So, rather than shun it, why have I not embraced motherhood? Why have I not thrown myself headlong into the movement and even tried to turn a profit from it? Why haven’t I allowed myself simply to enjoy it?

It’s an uncomfortable question to answer, because in many ways, surely, my prejudices are unfair. Just because I’ve not been able to switch off and allow myself to be consumed, on both my maternity leaves, by the uncomplicated gorgeousness of having a newborn, why should I start criticising it for everyone else?

But it’s not that – everyone is entitled to the maternity leave they want. Where I come up against mothering and motherhood is that it’s become fetishised. It’s turned into an obsession, a crew to be part of, even, arguably, a clique – into which some of us will and won’t fit. We are being seduced into this new world, where we are meant to be able to be ourselves, with women just like us, and even potentially make money from it, but in which we are also, thanks to social media, required to keep up with our peers, heaping yet more pressure on us. But what if we can’t succeed as our role models do? How does that make us feel?

Yet more disturbingly, it is because I believe the #motherhood movement is something we’ve convinced ourselves is empowering, when, really, it’s just a smokescreen for the fact that we still face so many inequalities every day.

The gender pay gap is not closing any time soon. There’s a lack of women in senior roles across almost every single profession. And nearly 20 years on from the publication of the book WifeWork by Susan Maushart – which argued that women still do the large majority of work and childcare at home, whatever our role outside it – nothing has really changed.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Super-mum: financier Helena Morrissey with one of her nine children. Photograph: Darren Gerrish/WireImage

In fact, just last month the book Fed Up by Gemma Hartley was released, tackling the enormity of the emotional labour that women still have to shoulder alongside day jobs, house admin and raising children. It was borne of her own experiences of being unable and unwilling to deal with all of society’s unequal expectations of women.

And it was my own experiences of first- and second-time motherhood that convinced me that the motherhood movement was perhaps a case of the emperor’s new clothes. That we had fallen for the greatest con of all.

Somehow we had been convinced that creating our own women’s world was our idea, and the best place for us to thrive, when actually it was because we had been forced out of the wider one.

My own experience of this began almost the very moment I found out I was pregnant, in 2014. It struck me that, as soon as I had started journeying down the motherhood path, decisions started being made for me. What kind of birth I needed or should have, how much I should and shouldn’t know about childbirth, who should raise my child, how I should balance work and child-rearing and what was best for my own body.

Up until the point of pregnancy, I felt like my own person. But then, suddenly, I had turned from individual into expectant mother, with the same presumed wants and needs as all other mothers. I had become part of a group, with generic assumptions being made about me and the life I was going to lead post-baby. And a person for whom decisions were taken, rather than the other way round – in a way that men will never experience.

In a way, I was complicit in my own deception. I willingly let other people and societal expectations take control of my life. I didn’t question it when people told me it was better not to know the truth about birth until I had gone through it (it was not, and the ramifications felt enormous). And for too long, I misguidedly believed the lie that I could “have it all” – when actually society, and I, should have been preaching to “share it all”. That meant flogging myself to the bone in order to achieve everything I wanted to at work, then racing to pick my daughter up from nursery as often as I could, doing bath and bedtime and then attempting to be there for her emotionally as she navigated her way from baby to toddler to little girl. It shouldn’t have been a big surprise that, deep down, I was pretty unhappy.

I began to resent the fact that society didn’t seem to accommodate fathers or partners balancing work and childcare – why was it only mothers who were expected to rush home or work flexibly for school or nursery pick-ups? And it deeply frustrated me that no one ever thought to ask my husband: “How do you cope with a high-pressure job and a young baby?”

Even though I steadfastly plugged away at my career (and I really do love what I do), I began to see how easy it was for women to feel pushed out of their jobs. Yet, rather than be despondent, these women grabbed new opportunities with both hands. And I watched in fascination as the “business of motherhood” exploded – according to figures from 2016, 8% of new mums are currently running their own start-ups, with huge numbers more set to join them.

However, I questioned how much of it came out of desire, and how much from necessity – thanks to endemically lower wages than their male counterparts and societal expectations to shoulder the majority of the child-rearing. Because, while society patted itself on the back for offering more flexible hours, who were they really aimed at? Who was, most likely, going to have to take most advantage of them? Who was going to potentially have to put their career on hold as a result? Women.

So rather than see their lives stall, #motherhood rose up. We turned kitchen table start-ups into huge empires, because we’re deeply capable. But we were only sitting at them in the first place because we were forced from our desks.

We turned social media into our new home and personal branding platform and made motherhood “cool” or “scummy” or “funny” because we’re brilliant marketeers – and why not make motherhood even greater than the sum of its parts? We started hashtags and fashion trends and turned #dresslikeamum into a fashion statement, because we’re normal, stylish women desperate to break out of the stereotype we have been placed in.

But while we created this brilliant, powerful and lucrative female world that feels like our saviour, I began to wonder if it was actually some sort of twisted pyramid scheme in which in the short term we feel like winners (we’re making all this money!), but in the long term only we are the losers (because we’re selling the same things back and forth to each other).

Just think about so many of today’s “mother” businesses – clothing brands aimed at stressed-out mums who want to reclaim the stereotypes, apps to connect us, hacks to save us time, books to guide us through every eventuality. We now work, in part, to pay for the items of lifestyle we now believe we need. And then we innovate and create more businesses to solve more female-centric problems in our lives.

While it might feel empowering, by not tackling the wider issues around sharing childcare, or smashing societal stereotypes, are we not allowing the cycle of inequality to perpetuate? Are we accidentally exploiting one another because we’ve bought into the lie that we’re better off out of the “boys’ club”?

The reality is that it’s still tougher, in every respect, for women after a baby then men. And by sidestepping the issue, are we not harming ourselves, in the long term, more?

We’ve spent years making the most of the decisions that have been taken for us. And we’ve turned the corner we’ve been put in, into a palace. But it’s still a corner. And we’re still in it. Surely it’s time, now, to leave that behind and send #motherhood out of fashion.-------------------Tish, London: ‘It's pretending to be a standard restaurant’ – review






Bustling and bright, Tish knows exactly how to cater for the Jewish community who come here. But they aren’t really there for the food…

Tish, 196 Haverstock Hill, London NW3 2AG (020 7431 2828). Starters £8-£16. Mains £14-£29. Desserts £4.50-£8. Wines from £23

Just after our waitress had finished taking our order at Tish I looked up and said, “Is there any question you’d like to ask me?” It sounds terribly passive-aggressive doesn’t it, this interrogation, but don’t worry. Tish is a kosher restaurant in Belsize Park, north London. The room was full of Jews and if there’s one thing my people have nailed it’s passive-aggressive. Our waitress shrugged at her notepad and said: “Meh, I don’t think so.” Then she went, “Actually… Who’s having the soup and who’s having the salt beef sandwich?”

Ah, the salt beef sandwich. The question I was waiting for the waitress to ask was, 'Fat on or fat off?'

Ah, the salt beef sandwich. The question I was waiting for her to ask was, “Fat on or fat off?” You can have lean salt beef. Of course you can. But it’s a bit like unsalted chips or clean, sanitary sex. I mean, what’s the point? Back in the day when Russell Norman of the Polpo Group announced he was opening a New York-style deli called Mishkin’s, serving salt beef, I forced him to have lunch with me. I lectured him on how the waiters had to ask whether you wanted the salt beef with fat on or fat off. He took notes. When they opened his waiters asked the question.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘It’s very good, which it really ought to be at £15.50’: salt beef club sandwich. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the Observer

So anyway, Mishkin’s closed, and now here’s Tish, by Belsize Park Tube with one of those big outside eating areas at the front, under a plastic-walled marquee, like you get at cheap weddings. Inside the restaurant proper is brightly lit with a central bar, an open kitchen and soft furnishings. There’s a toilet area with lots of floral prints on the walls, because they’re very forgiving when there’s a risk of staining. It is filled with real Jews, not part-timers like me. There are many yarmulkes on display, and middle-aged women I may well have tried to snog when we were all 14.

You only need look at this crowd, at the way they interrogate their plates and eat while talking to each other, to know they do not regard this as some fancy dinner in a restaurant. It’s evening and they have to eat, so what the hell, why not eat here instead of in their own kitchens? Saves on the washing up. Most of them know each other. There is a lot of waving across the dining room and stopping by tables. It’s delightful and also, awful.

The menu is trying to be all things to all (of these) people. It’s pretending to be a normal restaurant just like the non-Jews have. So there’s seared tuna and a duck breast dish and a lamb pie with truffle mash. But, well, you need to know your market so, of course, there’s chicken soup with lokshen (noodles) and there’s schnitzel and there’s ox tongue and there’s a salt beef sandwich. Look, here it comes, with a bowl of crisps on the side as if it’s a weekend lunchtime around your great aunt’s house. Or maybe round my great aunt’s house. She was called Muriel and she liked to feed. I liked to eat. We were well matched. I miss her.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘Crystal clear but full of depth’: chicken soup. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the Observer

I conduct a forensic examination of the sandwich. There’s much lifting and poking. Now I understand why they didn’t ask the question. Because, of course, it comes with fat on. Who would want salt beef without the fat? There’s a sliced gherkin in there and sauce, and some green stuff which my colon will thank me for. It’s a very good salt beef sandwich, which it really ought to be at £15.50. The chicken soup is also a beautiful thing. It is crystal clear but full of depth. Come here when you are on the edge of death or have a minor cold, one or the other.

The chicken soup is a beautiful thing. Come here when you're on the edge of death or have a minor cold, one or the other

If you’re not kosher for God’s sake don’t come here for the steak or the dairy-free ice cream. Why do that when you can go to a restaurant where the steaks bleed and the ice cream involved a cow, like it should? I think my antipathy towards the picky-eating god of the Jews is well known. I’m fully expecting to hear soon that the Jewish Lord has discovered he’s gluten intolerant and, while we’re at it, that lactose brings him out in hives.

For my main course I order the gentleman’s schnitzel. That’s a veal schnitzel with a fried egg and capers. It turns up without the egg or the capers or, as it happens, the veal. She’s brought me a chicken schnitzel. I express dismay. She says: “We’re out of veal.” I say: “You didn’t think to tell me?” She shrugs and offers to get me something else. I tell her not to. (It reminds me of the story of the Jewish wedding where the chopped chicken livers were served in the shape of a carp because they didn’t have a chicken mould. True story; I put it in a novel.) It’s actually a nice chicken schnitzel. A seabass fillet with artichokes and a vegetable casserole is a solid bit of Mediterranean cooking. There’s a red cabbage and beetroot coleslaw which could keep the dry cleaners in work for months, and chips which rustle.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘We’re out of veal’: chicken schnitzel. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the Observer

Dessert is a game of two halves. There’s a lokshen pudding, which is compressed, set noodles with sultanas. It is dense and claggy and possessed of its own gravitational field. So, basically, it’s perfect. A gooseberry strudel is an arrestable offence. The pastry is undercooked. The gooseberry filling is under sweetened. Haven’t my people suffered enough?

The all-kosher wine list is peculiar. It has only a handful of Israeli bottles, despite the country’s wine sector having developed significantly in recent years, and most of the ones they do have aren’t mevushal (it’s hocus pocus involving boiling of wines so that non-Jews can handle them. I’m not sure why I’m telling you this. Like I care.) We drink a sauvignon blanc from France which is an awful lot better than the kiddush wines which gave me a headache when I was a kid.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘Haven’t my people suffered enough?’ Gooseberry strudel. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the Observer

Some restaurant reviews are consumer journalism. They tell you whether a place is worth your money. Others, like this one, are pure observational journalism. They are a snapshot of life. Tish is a bustling, noisy restaurant, frequented by a particular community. It’s already full and will stay that way. They do a good salt beef sandwich and a good chicken soup and a fine schnitzel and a terrible strudel. But unless you actually do keep kosher all you really need to know is that it’s there. It’s one for the k’nossers. That’s Yiddish for connoisseur.

News bites

Any talk of salt beef sandwiches leads inexorably to thoughts of the Brass Rail inside Selfridge’s Food Hall on London’s Oxford Street. I last wrote about it to moan about a less than helpful change to the purchasing system. A few years on and they seem to have sorted the problems. The salt beef and pastrami are still as good as ever. I am also addicted to their pickles (selfridges.com).

Since 2016 the community-based Orchard Project has been liberating tonnes of apples and pears from London’s private gardens and public parks which might otherwise go to waste. They are then turned into cider. Lottery funding is coming to an end, so they have launched a fund-raising drive. Visit crowdfunder.co.uk and search localfox.



Online food delivery business Just Eat has announced it is to start displaying food hygiene ratings for the outlets it represents. The trial will begin in Northern Ireland early next year, covering 600 restaurants, with a national roll out planned for later in 2019 (just-eat.co.uk).

Email Jay at jay.rayner@observer.co.uk or follow him on Twitter @jayrayner1

This article contains affiliate links, which means we may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by any advertiser or commercial initiative.

The links are powered by Skimlinks. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that Skimlinks cookies will be set. More information.-------------------Kids always want to stay up late. But what’s the optimum time for them – and you – to go to bed?






More than half of parents say bedtime is the single most stressful time of the day, yet research on when children should go to bed is poor. One expert explodes the myths

Kids always want to stay up late. But what’s the optimum time for them – and you – to go to bed?

Bedtime can be a battle for many parents, with more than half in a recent study saying it is the single most stressful time of their day – and almost two-thirds of respondents telling Disney’s Parenting Hacks podcast that their kids won’t sleep until after 10pm.

So, what time should we go to bed? It varies, says Dr Paul Kelley, an honorary associate in sleep, circadian and memory neuroscience at the Open University. The topic of young children’s bedtimes is “very badly” researched, he says. That said: “9pm is a sensible approach.”

For teenagers, Kelley says that, generally speaking, 13- to 16-year-olds should be in bed by 11.30pm. However, our school system needs a radical overhaul to work with teenagers’ biological clocks. “If you’re 13 to 15 you should be in school at 10am, so that means you’re waking up at 8am. They don’t get to do that, but that’s the one that fits in with their biological clocks.”

In an ideal world, teenagers aged between 17 and 20 should be in bed by midnight and wake up at 11am. “You shift later wake times in early adolescence and early adulthood. It then very gradually drifts back to 10am, then 9am and then earlier and earlier. So, for someone like me, who’s 70, a lot of us tend to get up at 5am.”

I’m 31, and Kelley says an ideal time for me to hit the sack is between midnight and 2am. Kelley and I speak at 9am, which he apologies for. “Neither of us are with it at the right time!” he laughs.

The crucial thing, he says, is to not be too hard on yourself. “Variation is normal. People tend to blame themselves for going to bed too late or getting up too early.”

When I was on the dole and liberated from any clocking-in card, I fell into what I thought was an unhealthy pattern of bedding down between 4am and 5am and waking up around midday. “That pattern you had when unemployed is more like you,” Kelley says. “I’ve been unemployed, and you settle into a pattern that suits you and it was a good routine; it worked. I did a lot of my Open University degree in that time,” he adds.-------------------I feel inadequate around my girlfriend’s wealthy, high-achieving family | Dear Mariella






The dilemma After what seems an age of online dating (five years) I met a wonderful woman. We’re both in our late 30s and want to settle down. After just six months we are moving in together and I’m considering proposing. We’re very much in love and have a wonderful life. But on meeting her extended family and friends, it’s clear we are from incredibly different backgrounds. Mine is humble, hers is filled with professors and doctors, and has close links to the best universities and the cultural elite.

Her family and friends are lovely, but I can’t get over the feeling of inadequacy, particularly because I know how much value they put on education. They are very wealthy and she’s yet to visit my parents’ tiny semi in the Midlands. I feel her family will think she’s settling. There’s a similar situation with another family member. It’s often discussed, without the realisation that it is close to the bone.

I have a very good job and live a nice life with charity work and travel, but I really don’t feel good enough because of my background and education. Even thinking of the wedding guests mixing stresses me out so much.

Mariella replies Haven’t you done well! Don’t worry, I’m just messing with you. It’s sad that although privilege is no longer considered any guarantee of success, a man in love should be experiencing a class struggle within his own relationship. I’ll neither chastise you nor seek to dissuade you from giving the matter careful consideration. Hopefully you’re aware of how ill-founded your feelings of low self-worth are? Legitimate worry about how the disparity in your life experiences will impact further down the line is different from actually believing you are in any way lesser. As a self-starter myself, the greatest pride I ever experience is when I find myself in hallowed halls and mansions, among those presumed culturally or aristocratically elite, knowing I have earned entry under my own steam. Feeling I’m in elevated company is occasionally brought on by the presence of big brains, but never big bank accounts.

You say you work in the charity sector, which will have brought you nose to nose with those less privileged than yourself, so you will be better aware than most of the lottery of life and how luck is as much of a currency as talent or tenacity. Your girlfriend may be fortunate in her privileged upbringing, but it’s taken her just as long to find a real and realistic mate – so there’s an example of equality of opportunity for starters.

The feeling that you are less is what will corrode your future happiness

Your parents may live in a lowly semi, but they’ve created a god, or at least a god in your girlfriend’s eyes, so they, too, have abilities to equal her more fiscally fortunate family. I could go polemical about the inequality of our education system, of how much more admirable it is to succeed based on limited opportunity than an excess of advantages and how proud you should be that you can describe your life today as “wonderful”. It would be easy to elaborate, but by doing so I’d simply be reinforcing our deeply embedded belief that there are the haves and the have-nots, and there’s no good to be gleaned from mixing disparate elements.

The problem you have isn’t with your prospective in-laws, regardless of whether the frequent mentions of the member who married down are intentional or benign. The problem you’re experiencing resides where most of our issues emerge from – between your own ears. It doesn’t matter how convincingly I lecture you on the equality of all mankind and encourage you to be blind to your girlfriend’s advantaged relations, just as we are increasingly becoming to race and gender. Your letter makes plain your conviction of disparity and it’s that sense of your own shortcomings that will corrode your chances of happiness unless you manage to get it under control.

I wouldn’t often counsel counselling before you even get hitched, though it would put a lot of relationships on a firmer footing. In your case I’m convinced it would be worthwhile for you individually and perhaps also as a couple. You two need to sit down and be genuinely honest with each other and that’s often the hardest thing to be. Beyond the sugary sheen of romance, you need to grub about in the dark places that might otherwise take a decade to get to and, unchecked, have the power to cause irreparable damage. These feelings you are having need to be aired and shared, but I suspect doing so within the confines of the relationship won’t be enough, which is where a professional can really help. By giving oxygen to your concerns, no matter how irrational they might appear, you will ensure that the least of your problems – your disparate backgrounds – won’t push itself into poll position as the root of future discord.

There’s no reason why two people who love each other can’t surmount the barriers to be faced as you navigate a future together, but yours is deeply embedded and insidious enough to creep up on you when you are most vulnerable. Addressing your perceived inequality now is the best way to ensure its doesn’t come back to bite you.

If you have a dilemma, send a brief email to mariella.frostrup@observer.co.uk. Follow her on Twitter @mariellaf1-------------------Jeremy Lee’s cake and pudding recipes






As the early evenings of late autumn make way for the darkening skies of winter, thoughts turn to tarts and cakes, custards and creams. The bustle of the kitchen is cheery. The clutter and clatter of pans, tart cases and cake tins is as invigorating as the purpose of nourishing and warming those we hold dear. The home warms to the aromas caught on the steam, filling the house and sending spirits and appetites soaring at the delightful promise of eating well.

Buttermilk pudding

The pleasing pairing of buttermilk and lemon curd with a small spoonful of the very best Jersey cream is a happy conceit.

Make 8 pots or glasses

silver gelatine sheets 1½

vanilla pod 1

buttermilk 350g

caster sugar 60g

best double cream 250ml

lemon curd 8 tsp (see recipe below)

Jersey cream thick or pouring, to serve

Lay out white pots or glasses. Soak the gelatine sheets in cold water and let soften.

Cut the vanilla pod in half lengthways and scrape out the seeds with a knife. Put the seeds into a pan and add the pod. Pour in the buttermilk. Add the sugar and double cream. Heat all this to just below a boil. Remove from the heat and remove the vanilla pod.

Lift the gelatine from the water and squeeze out any excess. Add the gelatine to the infused cream and stir well, ensuring the gelatine dissolves completely. Stir well. Strain the mixture through a sieve and pour into the pots or glasses. Cool, then cover and refrigerate.

When all is ready and requiring to be served, place a teaspoon of lemon curd on each buttermilk pudding then a modest pouring or dollop of Jersey cream.

Lemon curd

Make lots, for it is very good for so many other lovely things.

Makes a medium jar

lemons 6

eggs 5

caster sugar 175g

best unsalted butter 150g

Set a pan of water to simmer on the cooker. Zest the rind from the lemons very finely, then juice the fruit. Crack the eggs into a bowl large enough to sit on the pan. Whisk the eggs with the sugar, then add the butter and zest and juice of the lemons. Stirring all the while, cook the lemon curd for 20-25 minutes, or until it thickens. Should the curd be on the thin side after this time, cook for a further 10 minutes or so. Pass through a sieve then transfer into a pot or jar. Cool and store in the refrigerator till needed.

Chocolate, prune and almond tart

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Sweet treat: chocolate, prune and almond tart with cream. Photograph: Romas Foord for the Observer

A harmonious trinity of chocolate, prunes and almonds makes a splendid tart.

Feeds 12

best 70% cocoa chocolate 125g

whole prunes 12 – I love Agen prunes

Jersey cream, roasted almonds and icing sugar to serve

For the pastry:

plain flour 250g

icing sugar 25g

unsalted butter 125g, cold and cut in pieces

egg yolks 2

salt 1 pinch

cold water 1 tsp

For the frangipane:

blanched whole almonds 500g

unsalted butter 500g, softened

caster sugar 250g

eggs 4, at room temperature

For the pastry, sift the flour and icing sugar over the cold butter. With nimble moves make this into a fine crumb. Add in the egg, salt and water. Knead this deftly, though lightly, into a dough. Form the dough into a flattened round and wrap well in clingfilm. Refrigerate. This will benefit being made the night before.

For the frangipane, grind the nuts into a coarse crumb. In a bowl, beat the butter and sugar well until mixed. Crack the eggs into a jug and mix with a fork. Pour the eggs gradually on to the butter and sugar, mixing in. Add the almonds and mix well. Refrigerate until needed. This also benefits greatly from being made the night before.

Roll out the pastry into a large disc and line a 30cm diameter x 4cm deep-fluted, loose-bottomed tart case. Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.

Coarsely chop the chocolate. Stone and coarsely chop the prunes, then mix both roughly through the frangipane. Handle the mixture in clods into the tart, resisting the urge to smooth and even the finish.

Heat the oven to 150C/gas mark 2. Place the tart on a baking sheet and bake for 1 hour. Reduce the temperature to 120C/gas mark ½ and bake for a further 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool.

Best served with the finest Jersey cream. A smattering of roast chopped almonds and a dusting of icing sugar is always rather jolly for a final flourish.

Olive oil and Sauternes cake, poached pears and custard

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Simple pleasures: olive oil and sherry cake, poached pears and custard. Photograph: Romas Foord for the Observer

I have always adored the elegant simplicity of this dish and in particular their puddings. The sweet honeyed wine partnered with poached pears and a curd perfumed with vanilla and bay results in an elegant pudding.

Serves 10-12

eggs 5

egg whites 2

caster sugar 150g

lemon and orange peel a mixture, finely pared and sliced to fill 1 tbsp

plain flour 125g, sifted

sea salt ½ tsp

Sauternes 130ml

best olive oil 115ml

For the poached pears:

lemon 1

orange 1

vanilla pod 1

bay leaves 5

caster sugar 300g

ginger 1 small knob, peeled and sliced thinly

white wine 350ml

cold water 500ml

pears 6

For the custard:

bay leaves 2

lemon peel 1 strip

vanilla pod 1 (use the pod from the pears)

milk 250ml, the creamiest you can find

caster sugar 50g

egg yolks 4

Preheat the oven to 180C/ gas mark 4. Line a 22cm diameter cake tin with greaseproof paper, then lightly butter the paper.

Separate the egg yolks into one bowl and the whites, and 2 additional whites, into another. Add three-quarters of the sugar to the yolks and beat until they are voluminous. Whisk the whites until they are peaked, then whisk in the remaining sugar until peaked once more.

Alternate spoonfuls of beaten egg whites and flour to the yolks and sugar, incorporating the pared citrus rind. Then alternate the olive oil and Sauternes. Decant the cake batter into the tin.

Place the cake in the oven, lower the temperature to 160C/gas mark 3 and bake for 20 minutes. Lower the temperature to 120C/gas mark ½ and bake for a further 20 minutes. Remove the cake from the oven, and cool on a wire rack.

Meanwhile, make the poached pears. Peel the rinds from the lemon and orange. Place the rinds in a large pan with the vanilla, bay, sugar, ginger, wine and water. Bring this to a simmer.

Squeeze the lemon juice into a bowl. Peel the pears and rub each with lemon juice. Place the pears in the simmering syrup and cover with a disc of paper. Place a plate atop to ensure the fruits are submerged and cook evenly. Pears cook differently depending on ripeness and size. They will certainly take 40 minutes on a gentle simmer, requiring a check every few minutes thereafter. When they have a beautiful translucence, and piercing with a sharp knife causes the flesh to yield, remove the pot from the stove and let cool.

To make the custard, place the bay leaves, strip of lemon and vanilla pod in a pot with the milk. Bring this to a simmer, then let it sit and infuse for 10 minutes. Stir together the sugar and the egg yolks until combined. Stir in the infused milk. Place the pot on the stove, pour in the custard and cook gently, stirring all the while until quite cooked through and thickened. Remove from the heat and pour through a sieve into a jug. Cool, then refrigerate until needed.

The prettiest serving is the cake dusted with icing sugar, the pears in their syrup in a bowl, and the cold custard in a jug.

Jeremy Lee is chef proprietor at Quo Vadis in Soho, London W1-------------------Your pictures: share your photos on the theme of 'wait'






Wherever you are in the world, this week we’d like to see your pictures on the theme ‘wait’

Your pictures: share your photos on the theme of 'wait'

The next theme for our weekly photography assignment, published in print in the Observer New Review is ‘wait’ (please note that these are no longer published online).

Share your photos of what wait means to you – and tell us about your image in the description box.

The closing date is Wednesday 5 December at 10am. We’ll publish our favourites in the New Review on Sunday 9 December.

How to share your photograph

You can share your ‘wait’ pictures by filling out the form below. If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.-------------------When in the last decade did you feel most relaxed?






As the digital world takes over every aspect of modern life, it is increasingly difficult to feel as if you can truly switch off. An Ofcom report published in August concluded that a decade of smartphones has left people in the UK “dependent” on digital devices: we check our phones every 12 minutes when awake.

There is evidence suggesting that excessive screen time is impacting on everything from the way we sleep sleep to our sex lives. But how are you supposed to be able to remember how to chill out when you actually look away? It is no wonder that stress and anxiety is on the rise, with constant notifications leaving us in a permanent state of alert.

We want to know what you do to counter this. When in the last decade did you feel most relaxed? It might have been last week practicing mindfulness and reaching a meditative state on your sofa; or attending a family gathering surrounded by the people you love most, with everyone having such a good time not a single device was in sight; or maybe it was nine years ago, wild swimming in a lake in the middle of nowhere, perfectly serene and with no inclination to capture the moment on Instagram. Who knows, it could have been when you were FaceTiming a loved one abroad, or playing a particularly thrilling video game, with no need for a screen break - this is the digital age after all.

Please explain in as much detail as possible how you reached your most relaxed state and if you were fully aware of it at the time (nothing illegal though!), or if it is only on reflection that you realise it was the moment you were able to completely let go. We’d also love you to share a photo of that moment or a headshot photo of yourself.

How to take part

You can tell us about your experiences in the encrypted form below. Your responses will only be seen by the Guardian and we will include some of your stories in G2.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.-------------------Send a tip on an independent UK music venue for a chance to win a £200 hotel voucher






Whether it’s a city centre pub, church or a shed in the country, we want to know about your favourite small music venue

Intimate, atmospheric venues make for memorable gigs. We want to hear about anywhere you’ve been to recently that’s made an impression on you: perhaps somewhere you danced the night away, were so close to the band it felt like being on the stage, or were blown away by the sound or the venue itself.

Provide website or Facebook details where possible. And please ensure your tip stays within around 100 words.

The best tips will appear on the Guardian Travel website and may also appear in print in Guardian Travel. The winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a £200 hotel voucher from UK.hotels.com, allowing you to stay in a choice of more than 260,000 places worldwide.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.

Read the terms and conditions

Closes Tuesday 4 December 2018, 10am GMT-------------------Teenage boys and young men: tell us what issues matter to you






We want to hear from young men living in the UK for a project exploring the issues most important to you

What’s it like for teenage boys and young men growing up in the UK? That’s what we’d like you to tell us for a new Guardian project. We’re interested in hearing from those of you between the ages of 16 and 21 about the issues you think are important. If you’re younger but would like to take part, you will need to have your parent or guardian’s permission.

We’d like to find out what masculinity and identity means to you. And what you think about gender and sexuality or #MeToo. What about everyday challenges? How do you feel about school and exams? Mental health issues among boys and girls are on this rise, why do you think this is and what would help? Another serious issue affecting young men is knife crime. If this is something that you’re concerned about, how do you think it should be tackled?

What about the future? Issues such as the environment and climate change are rarely out of the headlines, are there other global issues that you think need more attention? We’d also like to know what you think about politics and how it is changing around the world, and how you feel about Brexit.

We want to find out what makes you happy too. What inspires you and what do you do in your spare time? These are just some of the questions we’d like to find out, but there will be other issues that you want to tell us too.

How to take part

To contribute to this project fill in the form below with your thoughts. You don’t need to use your real name but we’ll need some contact details so we can ask you any follow up questions and let you know if we are hoping to feature your story. As mentioned above, if you are under 16 we will need permission from your parent or guardian.

If you’re having trouble using the form, click here. Read terms of service here.-------------------A new council in London’s East End: a bid for democracy or island of privilege?






It has been home to Huguenot silk weavers, Jewish tailors and Bangladeshi shopkeepers, but today Spitalfields is known for its hipster vibe, chic market and stylish bars. Residents include artists Tracey Emin and Gilbert and George, and a delicatessen trades from the ground floor of a house owned by the novelist Jeanette Winterson.

But tensions have emerged over a proposal by some residents to establish a local town council within the borough of Tower Hamlets, which stretches for several miles across east London to the Newham border.

Supporters of the plan say it would increase accountability and allow issues of concern to local residents, such as litter and street lighting, to be addressed. Critics point to additional bureaucracy and the diversion of funds – and a risk of entrenching divisions between the affluent occupants of carefully restored 18th-century dwellings and the residents of run-down housing estates to the east and south, many of whom are of Bangladeshi heritage.

It is more than 100 years since Spitalfields last had its own governing authority, in the form of a civil parish set up in 1729. That was absorbed into the Metropolitan borough of Stepney in 1911, then merged into Tower Hamlets in 1965.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The Chicksand estate in Tower Hamlets is outside the proposed council’s boundaries. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Observer

But residents are entitled to seek to establish a town council within a borough if they have sufficient local support. A petition gathered 324 signatures – hardly an avalanche but enough, they say, to trigger a borough council vote.

Spitalfields – named after a leprosy hospital opened in the Middle Ages – has seen huge commercial development as the City of London expanded eastwards. Developers are charged a community infrastructure levy to pay for local improvements, but people in Spitalfields – where most of the construction has taken place – have not reaped benefits, campaigners say.

A town council would receive a proportion – between 15% and 25% – of any levies paid by developers to spend on local amenities. It would also be able to charge a precept on top of council tax, which supporters say would typically be £1 a week for each household. The council would comprise 10 to 12 elected officials.

“The issues that bother people are quite minor – litter, benches, green spaces, street lighting – but they make a place more pleasant to live in,” said David Donoghue, the coordinator of the town council campaign, who has lived in Spitalfields for 20 years.

There were also concerns about antisocial behaviour, including noise, urinating in public and vomiting, he added. A town council would be better positioned to deal with such problems. “The borough council doesn’t really get to the nitty gritty. We would have more local engagement, reflecting the views of people in the area,” he said.

Krissie Nicolson, director of the East End Trades Guild, which represents independent businesses in the area, said: “Anything that strengthens local democracy is a great idea. A town council will give local businesses a chance to have a greater say. A lot of big businesses have muscled in over recent years, and this would create a more even playing field.”

Global chains had forced up rents for everyone in the area, she said. “We’ve lost a lot of East End heritage and culture as a result.”

But opponents of the scheme say its proposed boundaries exclude social housing estates to the east of Brick Lane, a neighbourhood called Banglatown. A public meeting last week organised by campaigners against the town council was angry and emotional, said Alex Rhys-Taylor, a local resident. “There’s a lack of understanding [among proponents of a town council] of the Bangladeshi community and its contribution to the area,” he said. “The boundaries they’ve drawn make it look like they’re trying to enshrine their privileged position.”

The Spitalfields Neighbourhood Planning Forum, which is in favour of a town council, has agreed to change the proposed name to “Spitalfields and Banglatown council” following objections, and is reviewing the boundaries to incorporate areas further to the east.

“It’s good that they’re listening to local objections, but the principle remains that they want to put up boundaries within the borough,” said Sue Rossiter, chair of Bethnal Green and Bow Labour party, which opposes the plan. “Spitalfields is a very well-off area, and only half a mile away there are neighbourhoods of intense deprivation and child poverty.”

Tower Hamlets council had a policy of spreading funds from the community infrastructure levy across the borough to ensure that those most in need benefited, she said. Ringfencing up to 25% of that money for Spitalfields would have an impact in poorer areas. “It should be about the many, not the few,” she said.

Nicolson acknowledged that the town council might be dominated by “white affluent property owners”. She said: “If it can be truly representative of all people in our richly diverse area, that’s a fantastic thing.”

A few minutes’ walk from Spitalfields market, whose stallholders offer artisan jewellery, vintage clothing and food from every corner of the world, lies the Chicksand estate, just beyond the proposed borders of the town council.

Most people there seemed unaware of the plan. But Firuz, who has lived in the area all his life, said he had no problem with gentrification. “We all benefit from that. I’m happy for people to come here and do up properties as long as they want to be part of the community. I’m against separating one area off,” he said.

The first phase of the consultation closes at the end of December, and a second stage will take place in the spring. A final decision will be taken by the borough council next year.-------------------Do we need to hide who we are to speak freely in the era of identity politics?






Three academics are launching a new journal in which arguments can be made anonymously. But is separating ideas from their authors the best way forward?

Do we need to hide who we are to speak freely in the era of identity politics?

Do we need to hide who we are to speak freely in the era of identity politics?

Jeff McMahan is a professor of moral philosophy at Oxford University. He’s a snowy-haired American, originally from South Carolina, and he works in a large, dark oak-panelled, and not very warm study in Corpus Christi college. It’s a room with an illustrious past.

A little over 400 years ago, the committee that translated the Bible from Hebrew and Greek (and some Aramaic) into English gathered to do its work in this very place. What they produced became known as the King James Version, a scholarly and aesthetic achievement that amounted, in the late Christopher Hitchens’s words, to “a giant step in the maturing of English literature”. “It’s a lot to live up to,” jokes McMahan, as we settle down as near to the electric radiator as possible.

The King James Version was a vital part of a revolution in religious learning, which was the main academic discipline of the time, helping to remove power from the priesthood and, in its own way, hasten the spread of literacy. Only a generation or two earlier, translating the Bible was a capital offence – William Tyndale, whose own groundbreaking translation the King James Version built on, was strangled and burned for heresy.

Four centuries on, we in Britain live in a more open and tolerant society in which the pursuit of learning is untrammelled by the threat of death – at least from governmental authorities. But the modern dangers that academics face don’t need to be state-sanctioned, or indeed lethal, to have an effect on their work. According to McMahan, and a number of his colleagues, there is a new climate of intellectual caution developing as a result of intimidation from both outside and within the academy.

We're not going to accept papers that are designed to antagonise people. We want to protect the authors not their ideas Jeff McMahan

McMahan has spent most of his career doing what moral philosophers do: thinking and writing about often recondite ethical questions. Although he has an honourable record of political engagement, as far as most of humanity is concerned he might as well live in an ivory tower.

Recently, however, he has put aside his own academic concerns to announce that he is helping to set up a new journal to combat what he sees as an encroaching intolerance of free expression. Called the Journal of Controversial Ideas, the publication promises to include articles by anonymous writers – that is by writers whose ideas are deemed so controversial that it is unsafe for them to reveal their identity.

There is going to be one issue a year and the criteria for selection, says McMahan, are that the articles “give plausible arguments, good reasons and verifiable evidence in support of a position that is controversial, in the sense that is likely to arouse anger and hostility in some people, and that these arguments should be presented in an unpolitical non-ad hominem manner. That is, we’re not going to accept papers that are designed to antagonise people. We want to protect the authors not their ideas, so I certainly think that the journal should welcome the publication of replies.”

Although its first issue is unlikely to appear for at least a year, the journal has lived up to its name by already attracting controversy. The Guardian columnist Nesrine Malik derided it as an irresponsible “safe space” that was “thin-skinned, elitist, coddled, unable to engage in the hustle and bustle of the marketplace of ideas”.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Professor Jeff McMahan, photographed in his office at Chorpus Christi college, Oxford. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Observer

The Observer columnist Kenan Malik suggested that the very idea of anonymous articles should be “anathema to anyone who cherishes free speech and academic debate”. Ideas, he argued, “become ‘controversial’ only in a social context. Not because they are published in a journal that calls itself ‘controversial’”.

What brought their attention to the proposed journal was a Radio 4 programme entitled University Unchallenged, which examined the thesis that there is currently a lack of viewpoint diversity within British and American universities. Several academic contributors voiced the opinion that a fear of attacks by students, colleagues and social media activists had hobbled academic research in certain sensitive areas, particularly those that deal with issues of race, gender and colonialism.

As McMahan put it: “There is, I think, a greater inhibition on university campuses about certain views, for fear of what will happen. Threats from outside university tend to be more from the right. The threats that come from within university tend to be more from the left.”

Even before the programme was aired, the historian Gavin Rand took to Twitter to say that the “‘controversy’ at stake here is entirely confected”. Another historian, and anthropologist, Gemma Angel, who is an expert on the European tattoo, tweeted that the programme was “basically an opportunity for white male rightwing politically motivated researchers to whine on about how unpopular their abhorrent ideas are.” It was, she said, “disgusting”.

What seems beyond doubt is that there is a growing debate about whether academic freedom is quite as free as we like to imagine. But as it’s an academic debate there is also an accompanying argument over the meaning of the words that are employed.

For some observers, such as Nesrine Malik, free speech defenders are concealing their real interests behind misleading language. She claims that freedom of speech is being “used as a demand for ‘freedom from consequence’ for the speaker”.

McMahan is what philosophers call a consequentialist, which means that, morally speaking, one judges conduct by its consequences. I ask him what he thinks about Malik’s implication that he’s seeking freedom from consequence.

“Let her get 50 death threats in three days and see what she thinks,” he says, before quickly apologising for the uncharacteristic outburst.

A mild-mannered vegan, McMahan is not given to shoot-from-the-hip reactions. His preference is to mull over issues, do the research, and then give a measured, rational response. But he clearly feels angered by what he sees as two major misconceptions. The first is that he and his journal co-founders have not faced any real danger, and the second is that they are rightwingers.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Peter Singer: doesn’t believe identification is necessary for accountability.

By far the most celebrated figure behind the Journal of Controversial Ideas is Peter Singer, professor of bioethics at Princeton. He is renowned for his work on animal liberation, and is seen by many as the godfather of animal rights as well as the intellectual force behind the growth of veganism. A plain-speaking Australian, Singer has experienced many death threats as a result of his philosophical writings on euthanasia, abortion and newborn infanticide. He was also once physically attacked on stage while trying to give a lecture in Germany.

There is of course a distinction to be made between death threats issued by, say, the late Ayatollah Khomeini and those written in green ink by lone fantasists. I ask Singer on the phone if he has ever felt under genuine threat.

“If you come to the United States,” he says, “and you get death threats and you know how easy it is for people to get guns, you feel threatened. When I arrived at Princeton I had a meeting with the security people here, at their request, not at mine, in which they told me to take various precautions. So, yes.”

Yet both Singer and McMahan at are pains to point out that they are senior tenured academics and therefore their careers are largely safe from the kinds of censoring pressures they say are exerted on less established colleagues.

The idea for the journal came from the third and most junior member of the founding triumvirate, Francesca Minerva, after she received numerous death threats. Minerva is a bioethicist at the University of Ghent. In 2012 she co-authored a paper on the moral viability of newborn infanticide. She argued, as have several others, that there is no moral difference between a late abortion and ending the life of an extremely premature baby, and that therefore, at least in principle, both should be allowed.

The paper was published in the Journal of Medical Ethics, but it soon gained popular traction, finding its way, as McMahan puts it, “on to a number of rightwing Christian blogs in the United States”. In no time, Minerva was inundated with death threats. I call her to find out what happened. But first she wants to emphasise the importance of the public dissemination of intellectual discourse.

I still receive death threats. The last one said I was a 'waste of sperm' and 'we should get rid of you' Francesca Minerva

“I think it’s a good thing that people are interested in what academics publish,” she says. “We should engage with the public but the public has a responsibility to understand what you’re actually discussing in the paper.”

In her case, some of the public seem to have shirked that responsibility. A few years ago, when she was teaching in Melbourne, she received a message one evening saying: “Goodnight. Watch your back. I live in Melbourne too.”

She was escorted home by a security team and the university instructed her not to return to her office. She stayed at home for several weeks until she decided that if they wanted to find her, they were going to find her.

“I still receive death threats” she says. “The last one was at the beginning of October, saying that I was a ‘waste of sperm’ and ‘we should get rid of you’. They said I should be killed.”

If anything, she thinks the more pernicious effect of the intimidation has been on her academic career. Although she stopped writing on the subject, she says the threat against her has discouraged universities from offering her employment. “On one occasion I was told that the head of a department wanted to hire me but the college didn’t want me because I was too divisive.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Bioethicist Francesca Minerva, who had the idea for the journal. Photograph: University Of Melbourne

Since publishing the article, she has managed to find only temporary jobs. Whatever one thinks of her moral arguments, Minerva does not seem to be a coddled member of the elite, and it’s hard to see why being threatened with death is an acceptable consequence of her freedom of speech.

But are the threats academics face worse now than in the past? Singer has been writing about academic censorship at least since the early 90s, so why does he believe that the point has been reached at which there is a need for authorial anonymity?

“There are certainly more obstacles to freedom of speech,” he says. “I’m not exactly sure why. People have become sensitive to things being said, and it’s clear that people have suffered personally from saying them. So the situation has got worse for freedom of speech in that respect.”

Many academics dispute that proposition, denying that there is any kind of enforced narrowness of approved opinions. As one historian told me: “A lot of people who think we need this are the people who scoff at the idea of safe space for students. If we’re realistic, we’re talking about a handful of death threats. I would defend colleagues’ rights to make arguments that I profoundly disagree with on academic and political and moral grounds, but I don’t think we need a journal that allows people to do that anonymously.”

Unfortunately this academic wanted to remain anonymous himself, because, he said, he didn’t believe the issues were “best pursued in newspapers”. Several others also refused to speak.

One academic who is on record as opposing the idea that academia suffers from a lack of intellectual diversity is Jon Wilson, a historian at King’s College London. He accepts that there are more leftwing than rightwing academics – one recent poll found that 70% of academics identified with the Labour or Green party and only 10% with the Conservative party. But as Wilson told University Unchallenged, that’s because academics are naturally left-leaning, in the same way that the military is naturally right-leaning.

That may be true, but it’s a reading that obscures an arguably more important divide in left opinion that some feel has distorted public debate. Which brings us back to McMahan’s gripe about being seen as a rightwinger. He locates himself on what might be called the materialist left, in which economic power and class interests are the key social drivers.

But many of the new generation of leftwing academics come from the postmodern left, which is steeped in identity politics. Put crudely, they tend to focus more on culture than economics. And it seems to be questions of identity – gender, race, religion – that often inspire the most intemperate reactions.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Students turn their backs to author Charles Murray during his lecture in Middlebury, Vermont, 2017. Photograph: Lisa Rathke/AP

McMahan cites the example of Allison Stanger, the liberal professor at Middlebury College in Vermont, who last year invited to a debate Charles Murray, the political scientist and co-author of the 1994 book The Bell Curve, which notoriously examined racial differences in intelligence. Stanger’s intention was to challenge Murray’s positions but the debate was closed down by angry protesters in a melee that left Stanger concussed in a neck brace, and at one stage, she later wrote, fearing for her life.

McMahan is steadfastly opposed to this kind of no-platforming, not just on the grounds of free speech but also for strategic reasons. He believes that in focusing on culture wars and identity issues, the left has allowed the right to pursue an agenda of commercial and environmental exploitation that is hastening climate change towards global catastrophe.

“What matters to the Koch brothers and other funders of Republican party candidates in the United States is getting rid of environmental regulations,” he explains. “So to the extent that students are distracted from thinking about climate change by worrying about what pronouns people are using, they’re helping out the really powerful people on the right by failing to take them head-on.”

Of course, it could be argued that it’s possible to worry about pronouns and climate change, but it does seem that it’s the pronoun area of debate that excites the most aggressive protests. In recent years, for example, there have been several cases of academic controversies centring on transgender issues. In November 2017, Lindsay Shepherd, a teaching assistant at Wilfrid Laurier University in Canada, was sanctioned after she showed her students a video of a debate involving controversiasl Canadian psychologist Jordan Peterson and another academic on the issue of gender pronouns. She was told by her supervisor that her failure to denounce Peterson was like “neutrally playing a speech by Hitler”.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Rachel Dolezal was forced to resign in 2015 as head of the NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People) after it was revealed she is of white-European ancestry. ‘I identify as black,’ she said. Photograph: AP

In the same year, Rebecca Tuvel, an assistant professor at Rhodes College in Memphis, was the focus of an online shaming campaign after she published an article in the feminist philosophy journal Hypatia arguing in defence of “transracialism”. Tuvel compared the plight of Caitlyn Jenner, a trans woman, with that of Rachel Dolezal, a white woman identifying as black. As a result of social media protests, many Hypatia contributors, including members of Tuvel’s dissertation committee, called for the journal to retract the article. The dispute ended up with the journal’s editor-in-chief resigning, followed by various associate editors and finally the board of directors.

The Journal of Controversial Ideas, it turns out, is in no rush to explore transgender controversies.

“I really hope that most submissions are not going to be about this topic for the reason that it has been debated a lot,” says Minerva.

So from where will the controversies emerge? None of the founders is keen to prescribe what they’re looking for, and prefer to direct the conversation towards the editorial board – it already runs to 40 people – which McMahan says represents views from across the political spectrum, as well as different religious and other perspectives. One of them is Roger Scruton, the rightwing philosopher and chair of a government housing commission, who was recently accused of propagating antisemitic conspiracy theories by referring to Jews in Budapest forming part of a “Soros empire”.

“I greatly welcome having Roger Scruton,” says McMahan. “I disagree with him on almost every issue of substance, but he is someone who is committed to reasoning and argument about ideas.”

Scruton is not a popular figure among leftwing academics, but he’s probably not quite as out of favour as Nigel Biggar, the Regius professor of moral and pastoral theology at Oxford. Biggar’s Ethics and Empire project was the target of protest last year by students, an international coalition of academics, as well as 58 historians from Oxford itself.

Is this a kind of witness protection programme for nonconformists, a tacit admission that the bullying tactics have won?

The project’s declared aim is to “measure apologias and critiques of empire against historical data”. The consensus view among the objectors was that Oxford University should not support the project, which they saw as a crude “balance sheet” approach to colonial history. Scholars of empire, such as Jon Wilson, who signed an open letter opposing the project, argue that it’s “not intellectually credible” as an academic endeavour. Almost overnight Biggar became something of a toxic brand. As he said, if he were younger and a historian, he would certainly now think twice about giving voice to his opinions.

From a strict moral perspective, McMahan is not sure what’s wrong with a cost-benefit analysis of empire.

“I mean, it certainly may have had positive effects for Britain and British citizens. It also may have had very adverse effects for some people in Britain. The question is whether it had some beneficial effects for people in the colonies, and clearly, it did. You just try to identify those. Does that mean that colonialism is justified? No, it doesn’t mean that at all. It just means if we’re taking a broad retrospective view to evaluate the conduct of those who were involved in an impartial way, we should take account of the considerations that may have motivated them and consider whether these considerations were exculpating, or in some instances possibly even justifying.”

Having made this point, which is hardly extreme, McMahan becomes aware how it might sound in print and half-jokes that if I quote him he’ll be no-platformed for defending Biggar. He then appears to step back a little, by saying that he doesn’t know that much about colonialism. “All I’m saying is, there are bound to be things that rational people can discuss here in a rational way that’s not immoral.”

The whole point of moral philosophy is to pose difficult questions about common assumptions. If historians have reached the conclusion that no benefits of empire can be extracted from its history of oppression, does that mean moral philosophers must bow to that consensus? It’s certainly a question worthy of debate.

Like Kenan Malik, I can see the drawbacks in running anonymous scholarly articles. In a sense, it’s a kind of witness protection programme for nonconformists, a tacit admission that the bullying tactics have won. And in any case, as the Hypatia experience shows, a journal and its editorial board can soon become the focus of protests.

The founders of the Journal for Controversial Ideas are aware that in offering the option of anonymity to contributors they are potentially placing themselves in the firing line should the contents of the journal generate a major controversy. That’s a risk, they say, that they are willing to take.

But there is something about an identifiable author that seems critical to open debate. If it’s taken away, you’re left with disembodied opinions. And while it’s fashionable to claim that it’s the principle not the personality that counts, most of us in reality want to be able associate a position with a person, and have that person defend it.

Singer says he doesn’t believe identification is necessary for accountability. “In a refereed journal there is accountability in the journal itself, not in supporting the views of each and every article the journal publishes, of course, but in asserting that these views are put forward in a sufficiently well-argued and reasoned way to merit discussion.”

In one way or another, however, identity is the issue that won’t go away. To many no-platformers and social media warriors the mere fact that the three founders of the Journal of Controversial Ideas are white and two of them are male is enough to cast suspicion on its motives and relevance.

Both McMahan and Singer dismiss that suggestion as absurd. But theirs is the response of people for whom the ultimate arbiter is informed reason. The people they have to worry about, the activists busy trying to determine the parameters of academic debate, are those whose protests are built on indignant emotions.

The top five incendiary topics

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Harvard students protest a scheduled speaking appearance of Charles Murray, 2017. Photograph: AP

Genetics

For much of its history the study of genetics has operated under the long shadow of eugenics – the early 20th-century movement dedicated to “improving” the human race. As a consequence of Nazi attempts to breed a “master race” there remains a great deal of suspicion about research that examines the genetics of life chances, IQ, or educational achievement. Robert Plomin, a professor of psychology and genetics, has said that he used to be called a “Nazi”. But because decades of research have produced so much supporting evidence, the field is less controversial than it was once was, but is still somewhere that academics tread gingerly.





Religious studies

Given that accusations of blasphemy can have lethal consequences, the study of religion is potentially fraught with controversy. However within academia it tends to be conducted with sensitivity. Scholars have been reluctant to explicitly counter the myth that Islam emerged fully formed from the Arabian desert. And one who did, Christoph Luxenberg, wrote under a pseudonym. A few years ago the historian Tom Holland, who is not an academic, published In the Shadow of the Sword, which questioned accounts of Mohammed, and raised doubts about the location of Mecca. Even he said (jokingly): “When I write about Islam, my anxiety, and the reason I always pull my punches, isn’t that I’m afraid I’ll be killed, it’s that I’m afraid to be drummed out of the liberal club.”





Racial intelligence studies

In many ways this remains the benchmark of academic controversy. In 1994 Harvard psychology professor Richard Herrnstein and political scientist Charles Murray published The Bell Curve, which stated that on average white Americans had a higher IQ than black Americans. It also suggested that welfare policies that encouraged the poor to have babies risked lowering the average IQ in America. Murray remains such a controversial figure that he is regularly the subject of student protests – most notably at Middlebury College – and few academics wish to share a platform with him.





Transgenderism

Ever since the US psychologist J Michael Bailey published The Man Who Would Be Queen in 2003, the study of transsexualism and transgenderism has been a highly sensitive and often explosive issue. The book became a case study in the clash between science and activism. Transgender activists accused Bailey of misconduct, sexual impropriety, compared him to a Nazi and, in one case, posted pictures of his children online with sexually explicit captions. The bioethicist Alice Dreger later described how this campaign of “harassment” almost ruined Bailey’s career. His research ground to a halt and people stopped working with him, but according to Dreger, who conducted an in-depth investigation, the accusations were malicious and false.





Facebook Twitter Pinterest Athinangamso Nkopo from the Rhodes Must Fall campaign in Oxford. Photograph: PA

Defence of empire

Judging by the response to Nigel Biggar’s Ethics and Empire project, the academic consensus is that any kind of defence of empire, however limited, is simply not intellectually credible or morally acceptable. What’s more, there is a growing sense among many students and some faculty that British universities are mired in the history of empire, in their presumptions, teaching methods and, not least, statuary – the Rhodes Must Fall campaign was more than symbolic iconoclasm. Many academics, such as Amit Chaudhri, professor of contemporary literature at UEA, call for the “decolonising” of education. And there is a growing sense that to make a case for any aspect of the empire is tantamount to celebrating white supremacism. Andrew Anthony-------------------Five planned missions to Mars






Space agencies around the world are set to explore the red planet, while Elon Musk has even grander plans

Last week, Nasa successfully landed its InSight probe on Mars, as part of a two-year mission to study the planet’s deep interior. Nasa is also planning a rover mission for 2020, to investigate signs of life and collect data for future expeditions.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest An artist’s impression of the ExoMars 2020 rover. Photograph: M Thiebaut/ESA

The European Space Agency and its Russian counterpart, Roscosmos, have joined forces on this mission, planned for summer 2020. Using a European rover and a Russian surface platform, the project aims to study the planet’s atmospheric gases for evidence of biological or geological activity.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest An artist’s impression of China’s 2020 Probe. Photograph: China National Space Administration

Landing tests are currently under way for China’s first independent mission to Mars in August 2020. It is one of four deep space exploration missions planned by China’s National Space Administration, with an asteroid probe expected in 2022 and a mission to the Jupiter system set for 2029.

In the first Arab mission to another planet, the UAE Space Agency’s Hope spacecraft is to launch in July 2020. The probe, which will study the Martian atmosphere, should land in early 2021, coinciding with the 50th anniversary of the founding of the UAE.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest An artist’s impression of SpaceX’s Big Falcon Rocket. Photograph: AFP/Getty Images

With high hopes for humanity’s future on Mars, Elon Musk’s space exploration company is developing a fully reusable space-launch system, set for its first cargo mission in 2022. A crewed mission is intended to follow in 2024, creating a base from which Musk hopes to develop a thriving city and, eventually, a self-sustaining civilisation.-------------------Portrait of a planet on the verge of climate catastrophe






On Sunday morning hundreds of politicians, government officials and scientists will gather in the grandeur of the International Congress Centre in Katowice, Poland. It will be a familiar experience for many. For 24 years the annual UN climate conference has served up a reliable diet of rhetoric, backroom talks and dramatic last-minute deals aimed at halting global warming.

But this year’s will be a grimmer affair – by far. As recent reports have made clear, the world may no longer be hovering at the edge of destruction but has probably staggered beyond a crucial point of no return. Climate catastrophe is now looking inevitable. We have simply left it too late to hold rising global temperatures to under 1.5C and so prevent a future of drowned coasts, ruined coral reefs, spreading deserts and melted glaciers.

One example was provided last week by a UN report that revealed attempts to ensure fossil fuel emissions peak by 2020 will fail. Indeed the target will not even be reached by 2030. Another, by the World Meteorological Organization, said the past four years had been the warmest on record and warned that global temperatures could easily rise by 3-5C by 2100, well above that sought-after goal of 1.5C. The UK will not be exempt either. The Met Office said summer temperatures could now be 5.4C hotter by 2070.

At the same time, prospects of reaching global deals to halt emissions have been weakened by the spread of rightwing populism. Not much to smile about in Katowice.

Nor will the planet’s woes end in 2100. Although most discussions use the year as a convenient cut-off point for describing Earth’s likely fate, the changes we have already triggered will last well beyond that date, said Svetlana Jevrejeva, at the National Oceanography Centre, Liverpool. She has studied sea-level rises that will be triggered by melting ice sheets and expanding warm seawater in a world 3-5C hotter than it was in pre-industrial times, and concludes these could reach 0.74 to 1.8 metres by 2100. This would be enough to deluge Pacific and Indian Ocean island states and displace millions from Miami, Guangzhou, Mumbai and other low-lying cities. The total cost to the planet could top £11trillion.

Even then the seas will not stop rising, Jevrejeva added. “They will continue to climb for centuries even after greenhouse-gas levels have been stabilised. We could experience the highest-ever global sea-level rise in the history of human civilisation.”

Vast tracts of prime real estate will be destroyed – at a time when land will be needed with unprecedented desperation. Earth’s population stands at seven billion today and is predicted to rise to nine billion by 2050 and settle at over 11 billion by 2100 – when climate change will have wrecked major ecosystems and turned farmlands to dust bowls.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Residents of Anaroro, Madagascar, paddle through the flooded streets in the aftermath of a cyclone. Photograph: Gregoire Pourtier/AFP/Getty

Unfortunately many experts believe Earth’s population will actually peak well beyond 11 billion. “It could reach 15 billion,” said Sarah Harper, of Oxford’s Institute of Population Ageing. “All sorts of factors suggest women, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, will still want to have relatively high numbers of children and this might keep the world’s population approaching 15 billion rather than 12 billion.”

The world will have double its present numbers – but with hugely reduced areas of fertile land to provide food. We will be living in a shrunken, scorched planet bursting with human beings. Somaliland gives a grim vision of this future.

In the past few years climate change has killed 70% of its livestock and forced tens of thousands of families to flee from its scorched interior to live in refugee camps. “You can touch it, the climate change, in Somaliland. It is real. It is here,” the country’s environment minister, Shukri Ismail Bandare, said in the Financial Times last week.

Sudan and Kenya are also victims of a drought that has dried the Horn of Africa faster than at any other time in the past 2,000 years. Similarly, in Vietnam, thousands a year are abandoning the once fertile Mekong Delta as rising seawater pollutes paddy fields. By 2050, the World Bank says more than 140 million will become climate refugees.

It will be bad for humans, but catastrophic for Earth’s other inhabitants. Arctic ice loss threatens polar bears, droughts imperil monarch butterflies, and koala habitats are being destroyed by bush fires. In all, about a sixth of all species now face extinction, say scientists, although in the end no creature or plant will be safe. “Even the most resilient species will inevitably fall victim as extreme stresses drive ecosystems to collapse,” said Giovanni Strona of Europe’s Joint Research Centre in a report last week on climate change.

Scientists warned more than 30 years ago that such a future lay ahead, but nothing was done to stave it off. Only dramatic measures are now left to those seeking to save our burning planet, and these can have grim political consequences. In France, for example, President Macron’s new levies on fossil fuels, introduced to cut emissions and to fund renewable energy projects, triggered riots. Had only modest changes been enacted a few decades ago there would be no trouble today, say analysts.

But the most telling example is provided by the US, which has emitted about a third of the carbon responsible for global warming. Yet it has essentially done nothing to check its annual rises in output. Lobbying by the fossil fuel industry has proved highly effective at blocking political change – a point most recently demonstrated by groups such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and the Heartland Institute, which helped persuade President Trump to pull out of the Paris agreement, thus dashing the planet’s last hope of ecological salvation. “The coalition used its power to slow us down precisely at the moment when we needed to speed up,” said the environmentalist Bill McKibben in the New Yorker. “As a result, the particular politics of one country for one half-century will have changed the geological history of the Earth.”

Florida

No region of the US has more to lose from climate change than southern Florida. If scientists’ worst predictions are realised, an entire metropolitan area, currently inhabited by more than six million people, is likely to be swamped by a 1.5-metre sea-level rise before the end of this century, a rise that could see the tourist mecca of Miami simply disappear.

It’s a doomsday scenario that has united the leaders of Miami-Dade county and the cities of Miami and Miami Beach in an attempt to find solutions to the most severe effects of rising oceans before it is too late. Their plan to combat the physical, economic and social challenges of climate change, as part of the global 100 Resilient Cities programme, will play a key role in determining whether the low-lying region will still be habitable in the coming decades or surrendered to the ever-rising Atlantic.

“It’s a problem that can be managed, it’s not a problem that can be fixed and you walk away from,” said Susanne Torriente, chief resilience officer for Miami Beach, where hundreds of millions of taxpayers’ dollars have already been spent elevating roads, constructing higher sea walls and investing in modern, high-capacity pumps and stormwater drainage systems.

“Every generation will add to the work that we have begun,” Torriente says. “We are always learning, it’s a constant process of learning, re-evaluating and improving.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest A flooded street in Miami Beach, Florida, one of the areas of the US at greatest risk from rising sea levels. Photograph: Joe Raedle/Getty Images

Up to a million Florida homes, worth an estimated $371bn (£290bn, are at risk of tidal flooding by 2100, one recent study calculated, but the threats facing the greater Miami region are not just coastal. Hurricanes are becoming more powerful because of global warming, say scientists, who point to the destruction wrought by Hurricane Michael in October, while the combination of a low water table and high “king” tides – occurring in autumn – causes regular inland flooding even on dry days.

This means that the new joint action plan being worked on by city and county officials has to be further-reaching than anything that has preceded it, Torriente says. “Our resilience journey began with the climate work, the storm water, [but] this strategy will be much broader and will be defining resilience not only in terms of climate and flooding, but also mobility and housing, property, and how to recover quickly in the event of a hurricane in south Florida.”

These moves reflect the sense of urgency being felt in Florida, where the state leadership has been criticised for neglecting the environment. Its newly elected senator, Rick Scott, banned staff from using the term climate change during his time as governor of Florida, and will be a close Washington ally of President Donald Trump, who took the US out of the Paris climate agreement.

“We’ll be much more successful if we have more cooperation and more attention at all levels of government, [because] it’s a problem for all of us,” Torriente says. “But we do what we can. Everything we are doing is funded locally, so we can continue to invest.”

Richard Luscombe, Miami

Madagascar



It’s a 45-minute canoe journey along the coast from regional capital Morombe to Kivalo in south-west Madagascar. Children frolic in the water, palm trees sway, and fishing nets hang along the beach. This tranquillity is deceptive, however – for Madagascar is ranked as one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change. Higher temperatures, extended drought periods in the south, intensification of cyclones and rising sea levels are all forecast. For good measure, the country’s pervasive poverty restricts its capacity to adapt to such changes.

In Kivalo, this is already a familiar picture. “The southern wind used to start in January and last until July,” says Bikison Thomas, a fisherman. “But it’s still going now in November.” On very windy days, he cannot put out to sea. “There is also more fog,” he adds. Overfishing, higher sea temperatures and the loss of mangrove, a crucial habitat for fish stocks, are also reducing catches.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Villagers deal with the floods in Madagascar after a tropical cyclone. Photograph: Alain Iloiniaina/Getty Images

The Madagascar government is aware of the country’s vulnerability and has ratified the Paris agreement. Climate change is listed in every major policy document but budgets usually fall short of producing effective measures, a point that is demonstrated dramatically down the coast in the town of Morondava, where hotels are grappling with sea-level rise.

Two years ago, Chayune Badouraly bought the Coco Beach hotel. It had a few bungalows and a lovely beach. Badouraly added more bedrooms, a reception area and a restaurant.

But in September, powerful tides destroyed two of his bungalows, and the sea has not returned to its previous level. “We used to have 150 metres of beach,” he says bitterly. “Now it’s minus five.”

Although there are plans to build sea defences, Badouraly says that could take months, even years, so he’s taken the problem into his own hands and built a 60-metre-long sea wall, a mixture of stone blocks, steel rods and sandbags. “I knew we had coastal erosion problems, but I didn’t think it would be that bad,” he adds. “I would never have bought.”

Emilie Filou, Madagascar

Antarctica



It is hard to get a grip of the sheerscale of the Thwaites glacier in west Antarctica. It’s more than 300 miles long and 200 wide – and more than a mile thick. It drains an area of ice that is larger than England and stealthily slides towards the sea by several metres every day. Only from satellite images have we understood the shape and power of this ice monster.

These now show the beast is waking up. Thwaites’s uptake of falling snow was once matched, fairly finely, by snow and ice being lost as icebergs. Now it has begun to flow faster, along with some of its neighbouring glaciers. More ice is being lost into the ocean than is being replaced, speeding up global sea-level rise.

The cause of the disruption at Thwaites is straightforward, researchers have discovered. Increasing amounts of warm ocean water coming from the north have been melting the floating parts of the glacier and this, in turn, is letting the inland glacier run more quickly into the sea. This much we know, but we have still to understand how this process is likely to accelerate. At present, Thwaites contributes around 4% of observed sea-level rise, but it is widely agreed that this could grow exponentially. Indeed, some glaciologists believe that a complete collapse of the Thwaites glacier over coming centuries is now inevitable – and that would raise global sea level by several metres, drowning coastal ecosystems around the world, damaging coastal investments and displacing millions of people.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The field support team who will be setting up the camps on Thwaites Glacier, Antarctica. Photograph: Tim Gee/British Antarctic Survey

Research on the ice and frigid waters around Thwaites Glacier is urgently needed but carrying that out is tough. Even by Antarctic standards, this area is cold and remote. I have been working in Antarctica for more than 30 years, and I’ve never managed to reach Thwaites. However, the UK and US governments have agreed to send in scientists as part of the International Thwaites Glacier Collaboration. We are finally going to get the chance to understand this waking monster. At the moment, it is merely yawning and stretching. The question we must answer, urgently, is whether it is about to wake up and roar.

David Vaughan, British Antarctic Survey

Great Barrier Reef



Coral reefs cover a mere 0.1% of the world’s ocean floor but they support about 25% of all marine species. They also provide nature with some of its most beautiful vistas. For good measure, coral reefs protect shorelines from storms, support the livelihoods of 500 million people and help generate almost £25bn of income. Permitting their destruction would put the planet in trouble – which is precisely what humanity is doing.

Rising sea temperatures are already causing irreparable bleaching of reefs, while rising sea levels threaten to engulf reefs at a faster rate than they can grow upwards. Few scientists believe coral reefs – which are made of simple invertebrates related to sea anemones – can survive for more than a few decades.

Yet those who have sounded clear warnings about our reefs have received little reward. Professor Terry Hughes, a coral expert at James Cook University in Queensland, Australia, recently studied the impact of El Niño warmings in 2016 and 2017 on Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, the world’s largest coral reef and its largest living entity – and wept when he saw the damage.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Close to half the corals on the Great Barrier Reef have died in the past three years, according to expert Prof Terry Hughes. Photograph: Greg Torda/ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies

“The 2016 event killed 30% of corals, the one a year later killed another 20%. Very close to half the corals have died in the past three years,” he said recently.

For his pains, Hughes has faced demands from tourist firms for his funding to be halted because he was ruining their business. “The Australian government is still promoting new developments of coal mines and fracking for gas,” Hughes said, after being named joint recipient of the John Maddox prize, given to those who champion science in the face of hostility and legal threats. “If we want to save the Great Barrier Reef, these outdated ambitions need to be abandoned. Yet Australia’s greenhouse gas emissions are rising, not falling. It’s a national disgrace.”

This grim picture is summed up by the ethnographer Irus Braverman in her book Coral Whisperers: “The Barrier Reef has changed for ever. The largest living structure in the world has become the largest dying structure in the world.”-------------------George HW Bush, an American patriot with a deep sense of duty






Memories of a president who may have been born to rule but was a decent man living in a more civil time

It was one of those sparkling, blue-skied days typical of the American autumn. The campaign train was parked in a siding. Down at the level crossing, George HW Bush was trying to whip up enthusiasm for his 1992 presidential re-election bid among a group of sceptical South Carolinians. His was an uphill struggle, part of what the travelling press had already dubbed a “long goodbye”.

Bored by the prospect of listening to a stump speech I had heard numerous times already, I wandered down the tracks. Walking towards me, wearing a heavy coat despite the sunshine, came a face I knew. It was Brent Scowcroft, Bush’s national security adviser, also taking a quiet break from the fray. Scowcroft was a formidable figure, a cold war veteran and senior official under Nixon and Ford.

Of course, being a reporter, I had to ask him something. So I asked what he thought were Bush’s chances of beating Bill Clinton, the upstart Democrat governor from Arkansas who was leading in the polls with 10 days to go. To his credit Scowcroft did not brush me off. He did not put me down, as powerful men can so easily do to a journalist.

Instead, he shrugged his shoulders, gave a wry smile, and briefly raised his eyebrows. It was an eloquent statement, and unmistakable in its meaning. He knew Bush was beat. He wasn’t going to say so. But the train, metaphorically, had left the station. And Scowcroft was right. On 3 November, 1992, Clinton stormed to victory, and Bush was consigned to one-term ignominy.

The memory of Scowcroft’s courtesy to a foreign reporter has stayed with me. It was typical of how things were done in America in those less combative days before the 9/11 attacks, before the financial crash, before partisan political and populist-nationalist divisions got out of control, before the era of fake news. Bush’s time in office, from 1989-1993, did not lack fierce controversy. But it seemed contained in a way it does not now. And that was due, in part, to the way Bush set the tone.

Bush set great store by civility in public life. As Republican candidate in 1988 he called for a “kinder, gentler nation”. He was, quintessentially, a decent man, with a taste for the lifestyle of an English country gentleman. For the most part, though there were exceptions, Bush treated opponents with cordiality and expected their respect in return. When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, evicting its royal family and seizing its oil wells, Bush appeared genuinely shocked at an egregious breach of good manners.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest US president George HW Bush with prime minister Margaret Thatcher in Downing Street, 1989. Photograph: Tom Stoddart/Getty Images

I was with Margaret Thatcher in Aspen, Colorado, in August that year when news of the invasion came through. Thatcher was on holiday, staying with the US ambassador to Britain. Amazingly, in hindsight, it was Bush who rushed down from Washington to join her, rather than the other way round. After supposedly receiving Thatcher’s spine-stiffening advice – she reportedly insisted: “Remember, George, this is no time to go wobbly” – Bush famously drew what he called a “line in the sand”. From that ensued what came to be known as the first Gulf war in 1991 and, arguably, also the 2003 invasion of Iraq by Bush’s son, George W Bush.

Bush’s White House was quite unlike that of Barack Obama, let alone Donald Trump. It oozed the confidence of a government and a leader who, in terms of sheer power, had no equals in the world. The Soviet Union was gone. The international terror threat was still largely in the future. Security around the Oval Office was efficient but nothing like it is now. Bush and his wife, Barbara, nicknamed the “silver fox”, were accessible to reporters in a way it’s hard to imagine.

Bush was a patriot who did not need cheap slogans to express his belief in enduring American greatness

I recall one Saturday morning on the South Lawn when Arnold Schwarzenegger, then still a mere actor, was publicising a presidential national fitness initiative by doing workouts for the cameras. Barbara Bush, no fan of sweaty push-ups, looked on with her English springer spaniel, the “first canine”, Millie, at her side. We were soon in conversation as I told her of the problems my daughters had encountered in settling our springer, Bryde, in our new Washington home. Free tips on springer handling followed, later encapsulated in her bestseller, Millie’s Book.

Marlin Fitzwater, Bush’s avuncular press secretary, exemplified this relaxed atmosphere. Fitzwater invited me into his office for a friendly cup of tea on my first day in the White House press corps. If you needed something from him, you only had to phone. It was in this period that the Guardian obtained its first ever trip aboard Air Force One, flying with Bush from Omaha to Andrews air force base. Just try asking for similar assistance now.

It has become fashionable to suggest Bush belonged to an elite that is somehow responsible for the current rightwing populist backlash. It’s true he enjoyed a privileged upbringing in a monied east coast family. Bush was a natural scion of America’s white, Anglo-Saxon, Ivy League-educated patrician class – the closest 20th-century America came to an aristocracy. In a sense Bush was born to rule – and that era of entitlement has clearly passed.

But Bush’s most admirable quality is still of high value – his deep sense of public duty and service, dating back to his time as a second world war combat pilot. I recall travelling with him to Honolulu in December 1991, to commemorate the attack on Pearl Harbor. As the sun rose over the Cemetery of the Pacific, Bush stood with hand on heart, his voice choking with emotion, exactly 50 years – to the minute – after the Japanese bombers swept in. Bush was a patriot who did not need cheap slogans to express his belief in enduring American greatness.

Simon Tisdall was the Guardian’s US editor and White House correspondent from 1989 to 1994-------------------Santa runs and Paris repairs: Sunday's best photos






Jakarta, Indonesia A youth carries an Indonesian flag at a rally attended by tens of thousands of Indonesian Muslims to commemorate a series of rallies held in late 2016, which targeted the city’s former Christian governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama

Photograph: Darren Whiteside/Reuters-------------------The aftermath of the gilets jaunes riots in Paris – in pictures






Vandalised cars and graffiti on the streets of central Paris, after a day of clashes between riot police and gilets jaunes protesters, who are demonstrating against rising oil prices and living costs

• Paris riots: Macron to hold emergency meeting after worst unrest in decade

-------------------The big picture: if looks could kill... on the streets of Edinburgh






In 1966, junior doctor Robert Blomfield was walking through Edinburgh’s well-to-do West End area when something caught his eye. Two women had run into each other and stopped for a chat; one rested her chickens, just purchased from the butcher’s on the corner, on the pavement between them.

A keen amateur photographer, at this time, Blomfield habitually walked around with two cameras round his neck – one with a 28mm lens, the other a 50 or 105mm – on the off-chance he’d encounter something photo-worthy. “He was armed,” says his brother and archivist, Johnny Blomfield. “He was always on the lookout for a lucky shot.” He worked quickly and had covered his camera in black tape to make it less obtrusive. “But,” says his brother, “obviously he was a bit slow on this occasion – she’s got him. If looks could kill, you’ve got it there.”

Born in Sheffield in 1938, Robert balanced his passion for photography with medicine all his working life, until a stroke in 1999 forced him to retire. At one point, in the 1960s, he was on the brink of becoming a professional photographer; he had attracted the interest of the Times and John Betjeman for a project, but the opportunity fizzled out. His photos were stored in boxes until a few years ago, when his family stepped in to archive his work.

Now 80, Robert finally has his debut exhibition. How is he feeling about it all? “A mixture of both pleasure and terror, basically,” says Johnny. But his work deserves to be seen, he adds. “He was just alert to what was going on, which most people aren’t. You don’t notice these things – the witty, funny, odd things happening in the streets – but there he was, capturing them.”

Robert Blomfield: Edinburgh Street Photography, An Unseen Archive is at City Art Centre, Edinburgh, until 17 March 2019-------------------George HW Bush - a life in pictures






Bush failed to become the Republican presidential nominee in 1980 but was chosen by Ronald Reagan to be his vice-presidential running mate and they were elected in November 1980. Here, Ford lends his support to the campaign in Peoria, Illinois.

Photograph: AP-------------------'My babies need to eat': children enveloped by crisis in CAR – in pictures






The resurgence of violence in Central African Republic has made life for the country’s children harsher and more dangerous than ever before. Two-thirds are in need of humanitarian assistance and yet, with schools, hospitals and places of worship increasingly under attack, the places they can go to for protection, support and medical assistance are ever fewer



All photographs by Ashley Gilberston for VII Photo/Unicef-------------------Surreal jigsaw puzzle montages – in pictures






Software engineer by day, puzzle enthusiast by night, Washington-based artist Tim Klein has been creating montages out of jigsaw puzzles for 25 years. “A jigsaw puzzle manufacturer typically uses the same cut pattern for different puzzles,” Klein explains. “This makes the pieces of their puzzles interchangeable and I find that I can combine two or more to make a surreal image that the manufacturer never imagined.” He was inspired by American art professor Mel Andringa, who was the first to experiment with puzzle montages in the 1960s. For his work, Klein uses vintage puzzles from the 1970s-90s, the selection of which can take years: “It’s an obsessive but enjoyable treasure hunt,” he says. The resulting image is often very different from his original idea, making the process feel like one of discovery as much as of creation: “I sometimes feel like an archaeologist reconstructing some curious, shattered artefact.”-------------------Trade Truce Seen as a 'Trap,' 'Disaster' by China Hawks





The trade truce between the U.S. and China delays their economic battle but creates little hope for lasting resolution of the deep divide between the two nations on the future of the global economy, according to many China analysts.

President Donald Trump and China hawks in his administration have frequently criticized prior U.S. presidents for being out-maneuvered and out-smarted by China’s tactic of engaging in endless negotiations and holding out the promise of reform while continuing to carry out its economic predation. The Obama administration spent years in what was known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue without anything of substance to show for it.

To critics of the Buenos Aires truce, the Trump administration appears to be repeating this mistake.

“The president has fallen into the same trap as Barack Obama, George W. Bush and even Bill Clinton. He will get more platitudes and promises and very few results,” University of Maryland economist Peter Morici told the Wall Street Journal.

One former administration official described the deal as “a total disaster. “We’ve now entered into the Trump version of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue,” the person said.

Dan MiMicco, a steel executive who was part of the Trump transition team, said he was disappointed with the agreement:

Is #Trump making a huge mistake? The devil is in the details! But I’d be lying if I didn’t say at first glance this is very disappointing. https://t.co/DTNR4spVKO — Dan DiMicco (@DanRDimicco) December 2, 2018

Some conservative China critics say that the deal could have been worse. For weeks leading up to the dinner, many feared the U.S. would agree to end or suspend the 10 percent tariffs. From that perspective, the worst case scenario was avoided because the Trump administration only agreed to a pause in escalation.

Not all analysts were as negative about the deal but few believe the U.S. and China were close to resolving their fundamental differences, in large part because China’s global ambitions would be thwarted by a deal that did resolve them.

The Financial Times’ Brendan Greeley wrote:

China and the US aren’t fighting over what China exports now — assembled electronics, toys, socks, furniture. They’re fighting over what China wants to make at home in the future. China has a plan to become self sufficient in electric cars, aerospace, bio-medicine and farming equipment. These things are hard to make. They require decades to figure out, and a well-educated, productive, high-wage workforce. Xi Jinping didn’t compromise on this goal in Argentina. It’s hard to see that he ever will.

“It’s good to see the U.S.-Chinese tariffs war not escalating any further,” Kang Kam-Chan, head of the South Korean trade ministry’s Trade Policy Division, said Sunday, according to the Wall Street Journal. “But the competition for holding hegemony in global industry and trade between the two powers has not changed substantially.”

“The outcome of the Trump/Xi dinner on Saturday represents nothing more than a truce in the escalating trade wars,” former Goldman Sachs partner and ex-chief of the British Broadcasting Corp. (BBC) Gavyn Davies wrote in an op-ed for the Financial Times. “Entrenched problems remain, notably around US concerns about the protection of intellectual property, and the long term direction of Chinese industrial strategy. It is still very difficult to imagine that these gulfs can be bridged without further threats of trade protection from the Trump administration.”

Less than 24 hours after the deal was struck over a dinner capping the Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires, Argentina, cracks in the truce consensus were already apparent.

The U.S. agreed not to raise the tariff on $200 billion of Chinese goods from 10 percent to 25 percent in January, as had been earlier announced, while the two sides renew trade negotiations. But China and the U.S. are already taking very different approaches to describing what was agreed.

According to the White House, the Buenos Aires truce is on a 90-day time line, after which the 10 percent tariff will rise to 25 percent. During that time, the two sides would address China’s forced technology transfer policies and intellectual property theft, the two items at the core of the U.S. complaint about China’s predatory economic practices. The White House also said that China would purchase a “very substantial” amount of farm, energy, and industrial goods in order to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S.

The U.S. made no mention of removing the existing 10 percent tariff.

China’s statements on the agreement, however, made no mention of a 90-day timeline or the possibility of tariffs rising if the deadline passed without progress. In a press briefing, Chinese officials said only that the talks would focus on removing the 10 percent tariffs and Chinese retaliatory tariffs. Chinese officials were also vague about what it might purchase from the U.S. as part of the deal.

China’s statement also said that Trump would visit China and Xi the U.S. The U.S. statement made no mention of bilateral visits by heads of state. Similarly, the official Chinese news agency said the U.S. would continue to welcome Chinese university students while the U.S. statement made no mention of the topic.

This creates the possibility that there is less to the agreement than it seems. Or even that U.S. officials have heard in Chinese statements what they hoped to hear but not what China actually intended. The U.S. has a long history of misinterpreting the statements and intentions. During the Korean War, for example, China believed it had clearly signaled that it would have to intervene militarily if U.S. troops got too close to the Chinese border. Officials from the U.S., however, misinterpreted this signal, leading to armed conflict between the two countries that was only ended by the 1953 armistice.

“Neither side got their maximum demands and it’s not the first time in U.S.-China relations that both sides claim victory,” said Michael Pillsbury, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a defense official under presidents including Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, Bloomberg News reported.

Even within the Trump administration, there is skepticism. Some administration officials have shied away from even describing it as a “deal,” preferring to call it an “announcement,” the Wall Street Journal reported. Some worry that Wall Street’s reaction to the announcement of the truce, which is seen as likely to boost stocks, will encourage the president to soften his stance even further.

“The fear is that Wall Street will applaud this as ‘progress’ and it will make it tougher to raise tariffs to 25 percent when the negotiations fail to achieve anything meaningful,” one person familiar with the thinking of some Trump administration China hawks said. “The higher stocks go on ‘China hope,’ the more they have to fall.”

And it remains to be seen who will lead the talks that are supposed to follow the Buenos Aires truce. Recent trade talks with Canada, Mexico, and the European Union have been led by U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, known as a hawk on China. But the talks prior to the Buenos Aires dinner were led by a group headed by Treasury undersecretary David Malpass. It is not yet clear whether the Treasury group will retain its lead role or whether Lighthizer’s office will take over.

The terms of the truce have also come in for criticism. To China hawks, the deal very closely resembles earlier proposals to have China buy more commodities from the U.S. in exchange for the U.S. giving up other demands. This was derided by the hawks as “a plan to make the U.S. into an agricultural and energy colony of a hegemonic China.”

“China has explicitly agreed to import more of exactly those things that it doesn’t care to make itself, now or in the future,” the Financial Times’s Brendan Greeley wrote. He continued:

China imports US products that are hard to make and require skilled workers and years of capital investment: airplanes, cars and industrial machines. It also imports commodities: soyabeans, crude oil, plastic materials. In Buenos Aires, according to the White House, Xi Jinping agreed to increase imports only of commodities. These are the imports that China doesn’t care about, the imports that don’t threaten its plans. The concession costs Xi nothing.

U.S. trade expert Alan Tonelson said that the Buenos Aires truce would only delay the inevitable conflict:

President Trump’s decision to delay tariff hikes or new tariffs on China for 90 days in return for more Chinese imports from America and further talks on core trade barrier and tech issues only delays what should be the inevitable. Since even the most detailed Chinese promises can’t be verified reliably, and since fostering bilateral economic ties has backfired so thoroughly on the US, any President determined to promote US interests will need to seek maximum economic disengagement from China ASAP.

In China, the deal is being heralded as a triumph. Notably, the state-controlled Global Times tabloid emphasized that the deal essentially puts the U.S. and China on an equal footing.

“As two major countries with great influence, China and the United States shoulder important responsibilities in promoting world peace and prosperity, Xi told Trump,” the Global Times reported.

From the perspective of the Global Times, Trump essentially agreed to the Chinese perspective on the relations of the two countries:

Chinese President Xi Jinping and his US counterpart Donald Trump held a “highly successful meeting” here Saturday, reaching important consensus and agreeing not to impose new additional tariffs…

Trump said that he agrees with Xi on his evaluation of US-China relations. US-China relations are very special and important, Trump said, adding that it is in the interest of the two countries as well as the world that the United States and China, both countries of significant influence, maintain a good cooperative relationship.

That’s very different from Trump’s own view of the Buenos Aires truce, which he described as “an incredible deal.” The president described the deal mostly in terms of concessions from China. “China will be opening up. China will be getting rid of tariffs,” he said before boarding Air Force One to return to the U.S.

Xi’s statement about “two major countries with great influence” may have special meaning for a Chinese audience familiar with the works of Confucius, one that does not bode well for the notion of future cooperation between the U.S. and China.

“There cannot two suns in the sky, nor two emperors on earth,” Confucius said, according to the Chinese philosopher Mencius.-------------------Bruce Springsteen: Trump will Win in 2020 Because Democrats Have No ‘Obvious, Effective’ Candidate





Rock legend Bruce Springsteen said in a recent interview that he thinks President Donald Trump can win a second term, saying that Democrats have no “obvious, effective” candidate to beat him in 2020.

“I don’t see anyone out there at the moment… the man who can beat Trump, or the woman who can beat Trump,” Bruce Springsteen said in an interview with The Sudnay Times.

“You need someone who can speak some of the same language [as Trump] … and the Democrats don’t have an obvious, effective presidential candidate,” he said.



Springsteen also expressed some displeasure with the results of the 2018 midterm elections, saying, “Yeah, it was nice to get the House back, but I’d like to have seen a much more full-throated [rejection] of the past two years.”

The Grammy-winner also defended Trump supporters, saying, “I think that there are a lot of reasons people became Trump voters.”

Springsteen told The Times:

You had severe blows to working people in the 1970s and 1980s as all the steel mills shut down. Then you had an explosion of information technology. These are life-changing, upsetting occurrences. You can find yourself in a country that you may not feel part of, or you feel that your [concerns are] being dismissed. So [you’ve had] an enormous amount of insecurity and instability. Add to that, someone comes in and plays on your racial anxieties, and blames an enormous amount of this on the ‘other’ from the southern side of the border, and you’re going to have an audience for those views. I basically think that [the problem] is the incredibly rapid pace of change that’s occurred in the United States that’s gone unaddressed by both administrations, Democrat and Republican.

However, Springsteen also expressed skepticism that tariffs might not work to get jobs back into the United States.

The “Born to Run” singer, who campaigned for Barack Obama, has not hesitated to rip President Trump.

In an interview published this week, Springsteen accused President Trump of committing a “crime against humanity” by “dividing” Americans.

Referencing Trump’s rhetoric, the rock star said, “It’s an awful, awful message to send out into the world if you’re in that job and in that position. It’s just an ugly, awful message. You are intentionally trying to disenfranchise a large portion of Americans. I mean, you are simply…that’s unforgivable.”

Earlier this year, the 69-year-old said that America was undergoing a “battle for the soul” of America.

“Folks trying to normalize hate, calling upon the most divisive, ugliest ghosts of our past. I hope we’re just going through a terrible chapter in the battle for the soul of our nation,” he said during a Broadway show.-------------------Trump to Hold Off on Tariff Hikes Against China, Negotiations Continue





The White House announced Saturday that President Trump has agreed not to further raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports from ten percent to 25 percent as he had previously threatened, after a dinner meeting at the G-20 summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

In exchange, China will agree to purchase a “not yet agreed upon, but very substantial” amount of agricultural, energy, industrial, and other product from the U.S., to reduce the trade imbalance between the two countries, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.

China has agreed to start purchasing agricultural product from our farmers immediately, it said.

In addition, Trump and Xi have agreed to immediately begin negotiations on structural changes with respect to forced technology transfer, intellectual property protection, non-tariff barriers, cyber intrusions and cyber theft, services, and agriculture, Sanders said.

“Both parties agree that they will endeavor to have this transaction completed within the next 90 days. If at the end of this period of time, the parties are unable to reach an agreement, the 10% tariffs will be raised to 25%,” she said.

Xi has also agreed to designate Fentanyl as a “Controlled Substance,” meaning that those selling Fentanyl to the U.S. will be subject to China’s maximum penalty under the law, the statement said, calling it a “wonderful humanitarian gesture.”

Both agreed that “great progress” has been made on North Korea, and that both Trump and Xi would strive, along with North Korean Chairman Kim Jong Un, to “see a nuclear free Korean Peninsula.”

“President Trump expressed his friendship and respect for Chairman Kim,” it said.

Xi expressed openness to approving a previously unapproved Qualcomm-NXP deal, should it be presented to him again, it said.

The White House statement called the meeting “highly successful.”

“This was an amazing and productive meeting with unlimited possibilities for both the United States and China. It is my great honor to be working with President Xi,” Trump said.

The White House statement confirmed Chinese media reports that said no additional tariffs would be imposed after January 1, and that negotiations between the two sides would continue.

After the meeting, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters that the meeting went “very well.”

The dinner between Trump and Xi lasted nearly two-and-a-half hours — an hour longer than expected, according to the South China Morning Post.

At the end of the dinner, a big round of applause could be heard, and an unplanned family photo was taken, according to the paper.

In fact, it is going so well the two sides decide to take a "family photo" at the end – which is not something in the original plan. — Chungyan Chow (@ChungyanChow) December 1, 2018

The attendees of the dinner on the U.S. side included: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Chief of Staff John Kelly, United States Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, National Security Adviser Ambassador John Bolton, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor Jared Kushner, Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy Peter Navarro, Deputy Assistant to the President for Asian Affairs Matthew Pottinger, as well as two interpreters.-------------------George H.W. Bush’s Final Words: ‘I Love You, Too’





According to George H.W. Bush’s longtime friend and former secretary of state, James Baker III, the former president and WWII veteran passed away peacefully in his Houston home late Friday night.

Upon Baker’s arrival to check on Bush at his home Friday morning, he was alert and spoke with Baker.

“Where are we going, Bake?” Bush asked.

“We’re going to heaven,” Baker responded.

“That’s where I want to go,” Bush stated.

Baker left and then returned to the Houston home later that evening.

As H.W. Bush’s life slowly came to an end Friday night, his son, George W. Bush, called to speak with his father and was placed on speaker phone to say his goodbyes. He told his father that he had been a “wonderful dad” and that he loved him, shortly before he passed away.

“I love you, too,” Bush said to his son, according to Baker.

Those were H.W. Bush’s final words as he passed away surrounded by family members, friends, doctors, caregivers, and a minister.

“I can’t even hardly talk about it without welling up,” Baker said in a phone interview, according to the New York Times. “It was as gentle a passing as I think you could ever expect anyone to have. And he was ready.”

According to Baker, the WWII veteran “competed with death” and fought right up until the end.

“This is the most competitive man I ever knew in my entire life,” Baker said. “He demonstrated that right up until the very end. He competed with death — although he did say it’s time to go. But he kept fighting, he kept coming back.”-------------------George H.W. Bush’s Final Words: ‘I Love You, Too’





According to George H.W. Bush’s longtime friend and former secretary of state, James Baker III, the former president and WWII veteran passed away peacefully in his Houston home late Friday night.

Upon Baker’s arrival to check on Bush at his home Friday morning, he was alert and spoke with Baker.

“Where are we going, Bake?” Bush asked.

“We’re going to heaven,” Baker responded.

“That’s where I want to go,” Bush stated.

Baker left and then returned to the Houston home later that evening.

As H.W. Bush’s life slowly came to an end Friday night, his son, George W. Bush, called to speak with his father and was placed on speaker phone to say his goodbyes. He told his father that he had been a “wonderful dad” and that he loved him, shortly before he passed away.

“I love you, too,” Bush said to his son, according to Baker.

Those were H.W. Bush’s final words as he passed away surrounded by family members, friends, doctors, caregivers, and a minister.

“I can’t even hardly talk about it without welling up,” Baker said in a phone interview, according to the New York Times. “It was as gentle a passing as I think you could ever expect anyone to have. And he was ready.”

According to Baker, the WWII veteran “competed with death” and fought right up until the end.

“This is the most competitive man I ever knew in my entire life,” Baker said. “He demonstrated that right up until the very end. He competed with death — although he did say it’s time to go. But he kept fighting, he kept coming back.”-------------------Trump Sending Air Force One to Bring George H.W. Bush's Casket to D.C.





President Donald Trump on Saturday said he’s sending Air Force One to bring the late President George H.W. Bush’s casket to Washington, according to a pool report.

“Air Force One will be taking myself and a group of our people back to Washington. It will then be reset and it will be sent to Houston to pick up the casket of President Bush and it will be sent back to Washington,” Trump said from Buenos Aires, Argentina, where he is attending the G-20 summit.

Trump added it was “a special tribute that he deserves very much.”

Bush, 94, died late Friday evening in Houston, Texas. The White House said Saturday that Trump would postpone a planned press conference in deference to the late former president. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump are planning to attend Bush’s state funeral at the National Cathedral in Washington, DC, and designate Wednesday as a day of national mourning for the 41st president.

The White House flag is also flying at half-staff in honor of the late president.

WATCH: The American flag is flying at half-staff at the White House in honor of the life of George H.W. Bush. 🇺🇸 https://t.co/ENHjf39Cqb #Bush41 #RIP41 pic.twitter.com/dONHOrbQQD — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) December 1, 2018

Trump spoke before a working-dinner meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and their respective delegations. He thanked Xi for his kind words about Bush and said he would be leaving back to Washington right after dinner.

“We will be spending three days of mourning and three days of celebrating a really great man’s life,” he said.

Trump said he had “great conversations” with the elder Bush’s sons, former President George W. Bush and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush earlier on Saturday.

Xi, in remarks translated by an interpreter, said that he is “very saddened” by Bush’s death and that he sent his condolences.-------------------Trump Sending Air Force One to Bring George H.W. Bush's Casket to D.C.





President Donald Trump on Saturday said he’s sending Air Force One to bring the late President George H.W. Bush’s casket to Washington, according to a pool report.

“Air Force One will be taking myself and a group of our people back to Washington. It will then be reset and it will be sent to Houston to pick up the casket of President Bush and it will be sent back to Washington,” Trump said from Buenos Aires, Argentina, where he is attending the G-20 summit.

Trump added it was “a special tribute that he deserves very much.”

Bush, 94, died late Friday evening in Houston, Texas. The White House said Saturday that Trump would postpone a planned press conference in deference to the late former president. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump are planning to attend Bush’s state funeral at the National Cathedral in Washington, DC, and designate Wednesday as a day of national mourning for the 41st president.

The White House flag is also flying at half-staff in honor of the late president.

WATCH: The American flag is flying at half-staff at the White House in honor of the life of George H.W. Bush. 🇺🇸 https://t.co/ENHjf39Cqb #Bush41 #RIP41 pic.twitter.com/dONHOrbQQD — CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) December 1, 2018

Trump spoke before a working-dinner meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and their respective delegations. He thanked Xi for his kind words about Bush and said he would be leaving back to Washington right after dinner.

“We will be spending three days of mourning and three days of celebrating a really great man’s life,” he said.

Trump said he had “great conversations” with the elder Bush’s sons, former President George W. Bush and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush earlier on Saturday.

Xi, in remarks translated by an interpreter, said that he is “very saddened” by Bush’s death and that he sent his condolences.-------------------Pinkerton: George H.W. Bush and the Generation Touched with Fire





I’ve always said that if Tom Brokaw’s 1998 book about World War II veterans, The Greatest Generation, had come out a few years earlier, George H.W. Bush would have been re-elected in 1992.

That is, if the American people had fully appreciated the achievements of the World War II generation, Bush would have crushed Bill Clinton in ’92.

The difference between the two men, after all, was stark. Bush, born in 1924, was 17 when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. The following year, after graduating from high school, he volunteered for the Navy, flying 58 combat missions in the Pacific. During his war service, Bush earned the Distinguished Flying Cross; his citation makes for interesting reading:

For heroism and extraordinary achievement in aerial flight as Pilot of a Torpedo Plane in Torpedo Squadron FIFTY ONE, attached to the U.S.S. San Jacinto, in action against enemy Japanese forces in the vicinity of the Bonin Islands, on September 2, 1944. Leading one section of a four-plane division in a strike against a radio station, Lieutenant, Junior Grade, Bush pressed home an attack in the face of intense antiaircraft fire. Although his plane was hit and set afire at the beginning of his dive, he continued his plunge toward the target and succeeded in scoring damaging bomb hits before bailing out of the craft. His courage and devotion to duty were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Reserve.

By contrast, Clinton, born in 1946, managed to avoid military service in his teens and twenties. He was hardly alone in his maneuvering, of course, and yet still, we know that the path of patriotic service to the nation is more admirable—and more politically estimable.

Of course, some would say that what happened in the 40s, or in the 60s—who served and who didn’t—shouldn’t have had much bearing on an election in 1992, and that’s a reasonable argument. However, it’s also true, as the Greek philosopher Heraclitus put it 2500 years ago, “Character is destiny.” That is, a person’s basic worth matters much; it will determine the course of a future life and career.

After World War II, Bush married, started a family, and enjoyed two decades of success in business. Those decades were followed by more decades of success in politics, culminating in his landslide victory in the 1988 election; in fact, Bush was the last presidential victor to win over 400 electoral votes. (I was honored to have worked in that campaign; indeed, I worked in various Bush political efforts, as well as in the Bush White House, from 1985 to 1992.)

As our 41st president, Bush proved, yet again, that ancient wisdom: Character is destiny. His great success, of course, was the ending of the Cold War; the Berlin Wall came down in 1989, and the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. During those years, Bush was cool and firm; perhaps the experience of being shot down, at age 20, while flying a Grumman TBF Avenger gave him the feeling that everything after that was manageable. Yet it’s worth remembering that events back then could have cascaded in any number of catastrophic directions, and yet, thanks in no small part to Bush’s steady leadership, they didn’t.

It was this triumph that President Trump rightly emphasized in his December 1 statement: “With sound judgement, common sense, and unflappable leadership, President Bush guided our Nation, and the world, to a peaceful and victorious conclusion of the Cold War.”

Admittedly, the Bush 41 presidency had its failures. The most egregious was his 1990 decision to break his own pledge of “read my lips, no new taxes.” That decision was egged on by a cynical and manipulative budget aide, the late Richard G. Darman, and yet the consequences weighed heavily on Bush’s shoulders. As another president, Harry Truman, said of Oval Office decisions, “The buck stops with me.” By breaking his anti-tax pledge, Bush broke apart his coalition, and thus he lost to Clinton in 1992.

Still, Clinton was flawed enough, and the election was close enough—the challenger won only by 5.6 points in the popular vote—that the extra appreciation of war service coming in the wake of Brokaw’s book might have boosted Bush to re-election. If only, that is, Brokaw’s book had come out sooner.

In fact, if another World War II item of popular culture, Steven Spielberg’s 1998 film Saving Private Ryan, had come out earlier, the election would have been a landslide. (No doubt Bob Dole, another World War II hero who also lost to Clinton, has had similar thoughts.)

Of course, not every election can, or should, hinge on a candidate’s past military service.

And yet usually, if not always, the candidates with a record of war heroism stand out. We might recall the admiring words, back in 1884, of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. as he described his great comrades in the Civil War:

The generation that carried on the war has been set apart by its experience. Through our great good fortune, in our youth our hearts were touched with fire. It was given to us to learn at the outset that life is a profound and passionate thing.

So it’s no surprise that the politics of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, from U.S. Grant to William McKinley, were dominated by Civil War vets.

And now George H.W. Bush—whose heart, too, was touched with fire at a young age—takes his rightful place in the heroic pantheon of the ages.-------------------Pinkerton: George H.W. Bush and the Generation Touched with Fire





I’ve always said that if Tom Brokaw’s 1998 book about World War II veterans, The Greatest Generation, had come out a few years earlier, George H.W. Bush would have been re-elected in 1992.

That is, if the American people had fully appreciated the achievements of the World War II generation, Bush would have crushed Bill Clinton in ’92.

The difference between the two men, after all, was stark. Bush, born in 1924, was 17 when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. The following year, after graduating from high school, he volunteered for the Navy, flying 58 combat missions in the Pacific. During his war service, Bush earned the Distinguished Flying Cross; his citation makes for interesting reading:

For heroism and extraordinary achievement in aerial flight as Pilot of a Torpedo Plane in Torpedo Squadron FIFTY ONE, attached to the U.S.S. San Jacinto, in action against enemy Japanese forces in the vicinity of the Bonin Islands, on September 2, 1944. Leading one section of a four-plane division in a strike against a radio station, Lieutenant, Junior Grade, Bush pressed home an attack in the face of intense antiaircraft fire. Although his plane was hit and set afire at the beginning of his dive, he continued his plunge toward the target and succeeded in scoring damaging bomb hits before bailing out of the craft. His courage and devotion to duty were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Reserve.

By contrast, Clinton, born in 1946, managed to avoid military service in his teens and twenties. He was hardly alone in his maneuvering, of course, and yet still, we know that the path of patriotic service to the nation is more admirable—and more politically estimable.

Of course, some would say that what happened in the 40s, or in the 60s—who served and who didn’t—shouldn’t have had much bearing on an election in 1992, and that’s a reasonable argument. However, it’s also true, as the Greek philosopher Heraclitus put it 2500 years ago, “Character is destiny.” That is, a person’s basic worth matters much; it will determine the course of a future life and career.

After World War II, Bush married, started a family, and enjoyed two decades of success in business. Those decades were followed by more decades of success in politics, culminating in his landslide victory in the 1988 election; in fact, Bush was the last presidential victor to win over 400 electoral votes. (I was honored to have worked in that campaign; indeed, I worked in various Bush political efforts, as well as in the Bush White House, from 1985 to 1992.)

As our 41st president, Bush proved, yet again, that ancient wisdom: Character is destiny. His great success, of course, was the ending of the Cold War; the Berlin Wall came down in 1989, and the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. During those years, Bush was cool and firm; perhaps the experience of being shot down, at age 20, while flying a Grumman TBF Avenger gave him the feeling that everything after that was manageable. Yet it’s worth remembering that events back then could have cascaded in any number of catastrophic directions, and yet, thanks in no small part to Bush’s steady leadership, they didn’t.

It was this triumph that President Trump rightly emphasized in his December 1 statement: “With sound judgement, common sense, and unflappable leadership, President Bush guided our Nation, and the world, to a peaceful and victorious conclusion of the Cold War.”

Admittedly, the Bush 41 presidency had its failures. The most egregious was his 1990 decision to break his own pledge of “read my lips, no new taxes.” That decision was egged on by a cynical and manipulative budget aide, the late Richard G. Darman, and yet the consequences weighed heavily on Bush’s shoulders. As another president, Harry Truman, said of Oval Office decisions, “The buck stops with me.” By breaking his anti-tax pledge, Bush broke apart his coalition, and thus he lost to Clinton in 1992.

Still, Clinton was flawed enough, and the election was close enough—the challenger won only by 5.6 points in the popular vote—that the extra appreciation of war service coming in the wake of Brokaw’s book might have boosted Bush to re-election. If only, that is, Brokaw’s book had come out sooner.

In fact, if another World War II item of popular culture, Steven Spielberg’s 1998 film Saving Private Ryan, had come out earlier, the election would have been a landslide. (No doubt Bob Dole, another World War II hero who also lost to Clinton, has had similar thoughts.)

Of course, not every election can, or should, hinge on a candidate’s past military service.

And yet usually, if not always, the candidates with a record of war heroism stand out. We might recall the admiring words, back in 1884, of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. as he described his great comrades in the Civil War:

The generation that carried on the war has been set apart by its experience. Through our great good fortune, in our youth our hearts were touched with fire. It was given to us to learn at the outset that life is a profound and passionate thing.

So it’s no surprise that the politics of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, from U.S. Grant to William McKinley, were dominated by Civil War vets.

And now George H.W. Bush—whose heart, too, was touched with fire at a young age—takes his rightful place in the heroic pantheon of the ages.-------------------Left Attacks George H.W. Bush After His Death: ‘Blatant Racism and Toxic Masculinity,’ ‘F**k Him’





While many Americans are mourning the loss of former President George H.W. Bush, some on the left couldn’t resist using his death to attack him.

George H.W. Bush passed away Friday evening at the age of 94 in Houston. The blue-checkmark left sprung into action, attacking the former president for his role in the War on Drugs, the Gulf War, and other issues.

Amanda Marcotte of Salon went on a long Twitter rant about Bush, accusing him, among other things, of using “blatant racism and toxic masculinity theatrics” to “appeal to GOP voters.”

One more: Roger Ailes was a campaign strategist for H.W. Bush and helped convince him that blatant racism and toxic masculinity theatrics would appeal to GOP voters. https://t.co/Iwgi4EewS5 pic.twitter.com/XXmvivgMHS — Amanda Marcotte (@AmandaMarcotte) December 1, 2018

“One can draw a straight line from Bush’s 1988 campaign to Trump running on the same macho posturing and racist hysterics. Know your history, folks. There’s immense pressure to forget, and you should ask yourself who benefits,” she also said.

One can draw a straight line from Bush's 1988 campaign to Trump running on the same macho posturing and racist hysterics. Know your history, folks. There's immense pressure to forget, and you should ask yourself who benefits. — Amanda Marcotte (@AmandaMarcotte) December 1, 2018

Actor Rob Delaney simply posted a tweet with a link to the Wikipedia page for the “Highway of Death.”

Feminist activist Anita Sarkeesian chimed in, saying, “I can’t with these headlines about Bush’s ‘masterful foreign policy’. He was a warmonger whose violence created unliveable conditions in Iraq hurting civilians, like my family who didn’t have access to life saving drugs or basic food. Fuck him. And fuck media’s historical erasure.”

I can't with these headlines about Bush's "masterful foreign policy". He was a warmonger whose violence created unliveable conditions in Iraq hurting civilians, like my family who didn't have access to life saving drugs or basic food. Fuck him. And fuck media's historical erasure — Anita Sarkeesian (@anitasarkeesian) December 1, 2018

The first gulf war helped solidify the demonization of Muslims and Arabs in the mind's of (mostly white) Americans creating far reaching consequences. It also set the stage for Bush Jr to launch another racist war WHICH IS STILL HAPPENING IN CASE YOU FORGOT. — Anita Sarkeesian (@anitasarkeesian) December 1, 2018

The Intercept’s Mehdi Hasan attacked Bush for the “racist War on Drugs.”

Important thread. And a story about the escalation of the racist war on drugs by Bush Snr, built on a lie, that I explore in my piece today:https://t.co/gxDgopgiBd https://t.co/QAfL1CvXfH — Mehdi Hasan (@mehdirhasan) December 1, 2018

Vox’ Aaron Ruper said, “While George H.W. Bush was a more responsible steward of the economy than his son or Trump, it needs to be mentioned that his presidential campaign stoked fears and division with racist dogwhistles.”

While George H.W. Bush was a more responsible steward of the economy than his son or Trump, it needs to be mentioned that his presidential campaign stoked fears and division with racist dogwhistles https://t.co/wniMaGT6M0 — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 1, 2018

Indeed, many of the negative reactions mentioned the infamous 1988 “Willie Horton” ad which attacked Michael Dukakis for his past support of prison furlough programs, using the image and story of William Horton, a convicted murderer who got out on a weekend pass program in 1986 and later kidnapped and raped a woman. Horton is black, and many accused the Bush campaign of race-baiting.

The ad was not even made by the Bush campaign, however; it was produced by an outside group, and, as some have argued, the ad’s efficacy was overhyped by media coverage after the fact. This hasn’t stopped many on the left from attacking Bush over it.

Check out all the blue check mark reactions:

“The only question is whether we depict Willie Horton with a knife in his hand or without it." -Roger Ailes — Tim Dickinson (@7im) December 1, 2018

My autocorrect changes his name to “guy who ran the Willie Horton ad.” — Kashana (@kashanacauley) December 1, 2018

That’s an interesting way of putting willie horton I suppose https://t.co/Wfcvyc3XP3 — Oliver Willis (@owillis) December 1, 2018

This is the time for journalists glossing over President George HW Bush's life to remind everyone that it was his campaign that used blatant racial fear to win a presidency. https://t.co/S6LOun4nlW — Julio Ricardo Varela (@julito77) December 1, 2018

hey Matt looking for the advice of an expert political consultant like yourself. What do you think of this ad? https://t.co/W5Q1nhULoJ — we're going to abolish ICE (@SeanMcElwee) December 1, 2018

William "Willie" Horton, the late Lee Atwater, and thousands of black men jailed in an over-caffeinated "war on drugs" might beg to differ https://t.co/dOfsZFTpWH — Will Bunch (@Will_Bunch) December 1, 2018

George H.W. Bush is considered a decent man by the standards of Washington, which meant amid his accomplishments he did many very bad things — some the function of the age, some of his party, some his decision, on HIV, Iraq, Willie Horton, etc — but with evident decency and class — Bruce Arthur (@bruce_arthur) December 1, 2018

Won’t sugarcoat George H.W. Bush’s legacy: Willie Horton, Clarence Thomas, War on Drugs, Iraq, Iran Contra, but his service, handling of the Cold War, climate policies & NRA comments also can’t be ignored. Presidents who pass should be fairly critiqued not instantly mythologized. — Adam Best (@adamcbest) December 1, 2018

Really weird framing of the Willie Horton ad in the Times George HW obit pic.twitter.com/287nkktBV2 — Saahil Desai (@Saahil_Desai) December 1, 2018

Willie Horton 1988 Attack Ad https://t.co/Ph7ikm3LfC — Eric Andre (@ericandre) December 1, 2018

*racist not "racial" — Charles Preston (@_CharlesPreston) December 1, 2018-------------------Left Attacks George H.W. Bush After His Death: ‘Blatant Racism and Toxic Masculinity,’ ‘F**k Him’





While many Americans are mourning the loss of former President George H.W. Bush, some on the left couldn’t resist using his death to attack him.

George H.W. Bush passed away Friday evening at the age of 94 in Houston. The blue-checkmark left sprung into action, attacking the former president for his role in the War on Drugs, the Gulf War, and other issues.

Amanda Marcotte of Salon went on a long Twitter rant about Bush, accusing him, among other things, of using “blatant racism and toxic masculinity theatrics” to “appeal to GOP voters.”

One more: Roger Ailes was a campaign strategist for H.W. Bush and helped convince him that blatant racism and toxic masculinity theatrics would appeal to GOP voters. https://t.co/Iwgi4EewS5 pic.twitter.com/XXmvivgMHS — Amanda Marcotte (@AmandaMarcotte) December 1, 2018

“One can draw a straight line from Bush’s 1988 campaign to Trump running on the same macho posturing and racist hysterics. Know your history, folks. There’s immense pressure to forget, and you should ask yourself who benefits,” she also said.

One can draw a straight line from Bush's 1988 campaign to Trump running on the same macho posturing and racist hysterics. Know your history, folks. There's immense pressure to forget, and you should ask yourself who benefits. — Amanda Marcotte (@AmandaMarcotte) December 1, 2018

Actor Rob Delaney simply posted a tweet with a link to the Wikipedia page for the “Highway of Death.”

Feminist activist Anita Sarkeesian chimed in, saying, “I can’t with these headlines about Bush’s ‘masterful foreign policy’. He was a warmonger whose violence created unliveable conditions in Iraq hurting civilians, like my family who didn’t have access to life saving drugs or basic food. Fuck him. And fuck media’s historical erasure.”

I can't with these headlines about Bush's "masterful foreign policy". He was a warmonger whose violence created unliveable conditions in Iraq hurting civilians, like my family who didn't have access to life saving drugs or basic food. Fuck him. And fuck media's historical erasure — Anita Sarkeesian (@anitasarkeesian) December 1, 2018

The first gulf war helped solidify the demonization of Muslims and Arabs in the mind's of (mostly white) Americans creating far reaching consequences. It also set the stage for Bush Jr to launch another racist war WHICH IS STILL HAPPENING IN CASE YOU FORGOT. — Anita Sarkeesian (@anitasarkeesian) December 1, 2018

The Intercept’s Mehdi Hasan attacked Bush for the “racist War on Drugs.”

Important thread. And a story about the escalation of the racist war on drugs by Bush Snr, built on a lie, that I explore in my piece today:https://t.co/gxDgopgiBd https://t.co/QAfL1CvXfH — Mehdi Hasan (@mehdirhasan) December 1, 2018

Vox’ Aaron Ruper said, “While George H.W. Bush was a more responsible steward of the economy than his son or Trump, it needs to be mentioned that his presidential campaign stoked fears and division with racist dogwhistles.”

While George H.W. Bush was a more responsible steward of the economy than his son or Trump, it needs to be mentioned that his presidential campaign stoked fears and division with racist dogwhistles https://t.co/wniMaGT6M0 — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 1, 2018

Indeed, many of the negative reactions mentioned the infamous 1988 “Willie Horton” ad which attacked Michael Dukakis for his past support of prison furlough programs, using the image and story of William Horton, a convicted murderer who got out on a weekend pass program in 1986 and later kidnapped and raped a woman. Horton is black, and many accused the Bush campaign of race-baiting.

The ad was not even made by the Bush campaign, however; it was produced by an outside group, and, as some have argued, the ad’s efficacy was overhyped by media coverage after the fact. This hasn’t stopped many on the left from attacking Bush over it.

Check out all the blue check mark reactions:

“The only question is whether we depict Willie Horton with a knife in his hand or without it." -Roger Ailes — Tim Dickinson (@7im) December 1, 2018

My autocorrect changes his name to “guy who ran the Willie Horton ad.” — Kashana (@kashanacauley) December 1, 2018

That’s an interesting way of putting willie horton I suppose https://t.co/Wfcvyc3XP3 — Oliver Willis (@owillis) December 1, 2018

This is the time for journalists glossing over President George HW Bush's life to remind everyone that it was his campaign that used blatant racial fear to win a presidency. https://t.co/S6LOun4nlW — Julio Ricardo Varela (@julito77) December 1, 2018

hey Matt looking for the advice of an expert political consultant like yourself. What do you think of this ad? https://t.co/W5Q1nhULoJ — we're going to abolish ICE (@SeanMcElwee) December 1, 2018

William "Willie" Horton, the late Lee Atwater, and thousands of black men jailed in an over-caffeinated "war on drugs" might beg to differ https://t.co/dOfsZFTpWH — Will Bunch (@Will_Bunch) December 1, 2018

George H.W. Bush is considered a decent man by the standards of Washington, which meant amid his accomplishments he did many very bad things — some the function of the age, some of his party, some his decision, on HIV, Iraq, Willie Horton, etc — but with evident decency and class — Bruce Arthur (@bruce_arthur) December 1, 2018

Won’t sugarcoat George H.W. Bush’s legacy: Willie Horton, Clarence Thomas, War on Drugs, Iraq, Iran Contra, but his service, handling of the Cold War, climate policies & NRA comments also can’t be ignored. Presidents who pass should be fairly critiqued not instantly mythologized. — Adam Best (@adamcbest) December 1, 2018

Really weird framing of the Willie Horton ad in the Times George HW obit pic.twitter.com/287nkktBV2 — Saahil Desai (@Saahil_Desai) December 1, 2018

Willie Horton 1988 Attack Ad https://t.co/Ph7ikm3LfC — Eric Andre (@ericandre) December 1, 2018

*racist not "racial" — Charles Preston (@_CharlesPreston) December 1, 2018-------------------Netanyahu: We Will Always Remember Bush’s Commitment to Israel





The Times of Israel reports: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Saturday hailed George H.W. Bush for his efforts to boost Israeli security and for helping Jews immigrate from the Soviet Union, following the death of the 41st president of the United States.

“The people of Israel will always remember his commitment to Israel’s security, his important contribution to the liberation of Soviet Jewry and his efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East at the Madrid Conference,” Netanyahu said in a statement after the end of the Jewish sabbath.

On behalf of the people of Israel, I send heartfelt condolences to the Bush family and the American people on the passing of a great American patriot, President George H.W. Bush. — Benjamin Netanyahu (@netanyahu) December 1, 2018

The people of Israel will always remember his commitment to Israel’s security, his important contribution to the liberation of Soviet Jewry, and his efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East at the Madrid Conference. — Benjamin Netanyahu (@netanyahu) December 1, 2018

Netanyahu also remembered Bush as a “great American patriot” and praised his “wise leadership” at the end of the Cold War, which “helped steer the world to a peaceful transition and the spread of democracy.”

Read the full story.-------------------Netanyahu: We Will Always Remember Bush’s Commitment to Israel





The Times of Israel reports: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Saturday hailed George H.W. Bush for his efforts to boost Israeli security and for helping Jews immigrate from the Soviet Union, following the death of the 41st president of the United States.

“The people of Israel will always remember his commitment to Israel’s security, his important contribution to the liberation of Soviet Jewry and his efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East at the Madrid Conference,” Netanyahu said in a statement after the end of the Jewish sabbath.

On behalf of the people of Israel, I send heartfelt condolences to the Bush family and the American people on the passing of a great American patriot, President George H.W. Bush. — Benjamin Netanyahu (@netanyahu) December 1, 2018

The people of Israel will always remember his commitment to Israel’s security, his important contribution to the liberation of Soviet Jewry, and his efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East at the Madrid Conference. — Benjamin Netanyahu (@netanyahu) December 1, 2018

Netanyahu also remembered Bush as a “great American patriot” and praised his “wise leadership” at the end of the Cold War, which “helped steer the world to a peaceful transition and the spread of democracy.”

Read the full story.-------------------Man Drapes American Flag Outside Bush Family Home





A Texas resident draped an American flag outside the Bush family home in Houston early Saturday morning in a display of support for the family after former President George H.W. Bush’s passing.

Matt Peveto paying his respects to George H W Bush by placing an American flag outside the Bush family home in Houston pic.twitter.com/bBvXx3Ky0Y — Jeff Ehling (@JeffEhlingABC13) December 1, 2018

Matt Peveto, a resident of Houston, said he unfurled the flag over the front gate to the residence because he wanted to show respect for the late former president and his family while encouraging others to do so as well.

“I was watching the news and saw the American flag out here and said, ‘Well, we’re in Texas, so let’s make this a little bigger and better,'” Peveto told KTRK.

Peveto said that a close family friend of his worked for the Bush family and heard stories about Mr. and Mrs. Bush’s kindness and goodwill towards others.

Former President George H.W. Bush died at the age of 94 on Friday evening, eight months after his wife, former first lady Barbara Bush, died in April 2018.

The 41st president of the U.S. served from 1989 to 1993 and watched his son, George W. Bush, win election as the 43rd president of the U.S. eight years later.

Bush’s popularity soared after the U.S. success in the 1991 Gulf War, but a short, deep recession curtailed his approval ratings, and the Republican lost his bid for re-election to Democrat Bill Clinton.

The elder Bush also served as a Navy pilot in World War II, Texas congressman, Ambassador to the U.N., Republican Party chairman, CIA Director, and two-term vice president under former President Ronald Reagan.

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump issued a joint statement Saturday calling the 41st president a leader who “illuminated” America’s “greatness” throughout the world.

Statement from President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump on the Passing of Former President George H.W. Bush pic.twitter.com/qxPsp4Ggs7 — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 1, 2018

“President Bush inspired generations of his fellow Americans to public service—to be, in his words, ‘a thousand points of light’ illuminating the greatness, hope, and opportunity of America to the world,” the president and first lady’s statement read.-------------------Man Drapes American Flag Outside Bush Family Home





A Texas resident draped an American flag outside the Bush family home in Houston early Saturday morning in a display of support for the family after former President George H.W. Bush’s passing.

Matt Peveto paying his respects to George H W Bush by placing an American flag outside the Bush family home in Houston pic.twitter.com/bBvXx3Ky0Y — Jeff Ehling (@JeffEhlingABC13) December 1, 2018

Matt Peveto, a resident of Houston, said he unfurled the flag over the front gate to the residence because he wanted to show respect for the late former president and his family while encouraging others to do so as well.

“I was watching the news and saw the American flag out here and said, ‘Well, we’re in Texas, so let’s make this a little bigger and better,'” Peveto told KTRK.

Peveto said that a close family friend of his worked for the Bush family and heard stories about Mr. and Mrs. Bush’s kindness and goodwill towards others.

Former President George H.W. Bush died at the age of 94 on Friday evening, eight months after his wife, former first lady Barbara Bush, died in April 2018.

The 41st president of the U.S. served from 1989 to 1993 and watched his son, George W. Bush, win election as the 43rd president of the U.S. eight years later.

Bush’s popularity soared after the U.S. success in the 1991 Gulf War, but a short, deep recession curtailed his approval ratings, and the Republican lost his bid for re-election to Democrat Bill Clinton.

The elder Bush also served as a Navy pilot in World War II, Texas congressman, Ambassador to the U.N., Republican Party chairman, CIA Director, and two-term vice president under former President Ronald Reagan.

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump issued a joint statement Saturday calling the 41st president a leader who “illuminated” America’s “greatness” throughout the world.

Statement from President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump on the Passing of Former President George H.W. Bush pic.twitter.com/qxPsp4Ggs7 — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 1, 2018

“President Bush inspired generations of his fellow Americans to public service—to be, in his words, ‘a thousand points of light’ illuminating the greatness, hope, and opportunity of America to the world,” the president and first lady’s statement read.-------------------Texas A&M Students Create ‘Points of Light’ Tribute for George H.W. Bush





Students at Texas A&M University— the university which houses the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum— created a “thousand points of light” candlelight vigil tribute for the late 41st President of the United States.

Many remember former President George H.W. Bush for encouraging the nation to be a “thousand points of light” in his call for Americans to be more involved in public service. President Trump even mentioned the phrase in his tribute to the 41st president.

Decades later, nearly 70 Aggies— most of whom were not alive when the elder Bush served as president— paid tribute to the late 41st president at the candlelight vigil Friday night into Saturday morning at the Presidential Pond by the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum.

GALLERY: George H.W. Bush Candlelight Vigil Photos by @cassie_strickerhttps://t.co/5X98g1YDqt — The Battalion (@TheBattOnline) December 1, 2018

“Going to school with him being our namesake is the highest honor that any of us could have,” vigil co-organizer Tiffany Easter told the Battalion, Texas A&M’s student newspaper, “and to walk out of here learning about the legacy that he left as a public servant is an honor.”

“All the times I had gone through the library just kind of flashed through my head,” student Chris Huser told the Batallion. “I just thought to come here. It was almost instinctual.”

The elder Bush’s wife, Barbara, is buried in a plot at the George Bush Presidential Library at Texas A&M. The plot is near a creek where the couple’s three-year-old daughter Robin is buried. Robin died in 1953 from leukemia.

The 41st president— who died Friday evening at the age of 94— is also slated to be buried at the library with his wife and daughter.-------------------Texas A&M Students Create ‘Points of Light’ Tribute for George H.W. Bush





Students at Texas A&M University— the university which houses the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum— created a “thousand points of light” candlelight vigil tribute for the late 41st President of the United States.

Many remember former President George H.W. Bush for encouraging the nation to be a “thousand points of light” in his call for Americans to be more involved in public service. President Trump even mentioned the phrase in his tribute to the 41st president.

Decades later, nearly 70 Aggies— most of whom were not alive when the elder Bush served as president— paid tribute to the late 41st president at the candlelight vigil Friday night into Saturday morning at the Presidential Pond by the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum.

GALLERY: George H.W. Bush Candlelight Vigil Photos by @cassie_strickerhttps://t.co/5X98g1YDqt — The Battalion (@TheBattOnline) December 1, 2018

“Going to school with him being our namesake is the highest honor that any of us could have,” vigil co-organizer Tiffany Easter told the Battalion, Texas A&M’s student newspaper, “and to walk out of here learning about the legacy that he left as a public servant is an honor.”

“All the times I had gone through the library just kind of flashed through my head,” student Chris Huser told the Batallion. “I just thought to come here. It was almost instinctual.”

The elder Bush’s wife, Barbara, is buried in a plot at the George Bush Presidential Library at Texas A&M. The plot is near a creek where the couple’s three-year-old daughter Robin is buried. Robin died in 1953 from leukemia.

The 41st president— who died Friday evening at the age of 94— is also slated to be buried at the library with his wife and daughter.-------------------Trump to Hold Off on Tariff Hikes Against China, Negotiations Continue





The White House announced Saturday that President Trump has agreed not to further raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports from ten percent to 25 percent as he had previously threatened, after a dinner meeting at the G-20 summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

In exchange, China will agree to purchase a “not yet agreed upon, but very substantial” amount of agricultural, energy, industrial, and other product from the U.S., to reduce the trade imbalance between the two countries, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.

China has agreed to start purchasing agricultural product from our farmers immediately, it said.

In addition, Trump and Xi have agreed to immediately begin negotiations on structural changes with respect to forced technology transfer, intellectual property protection, non-tariff barriers, cyber intrusions and cyber theft, services, and agriculture, Sanders said.

“Both parties agree that they will endeavor to have this transaction completed within the next 90 days. If at the end of this period of time, the parties are unable to reach an agreement, the 10% tariffs will be raised to 25%,” she said.

Xi has also agreed to designate Fentanyl as a “Controlled Substance,” meaning that those selling Fentanyl to the U.S. will be subject to China’s maximum penalty under the law, the statement said, calling it a “wonderful humanitarian gesture.”

Both agreed that “great progress” has been made on North Korea, and that both Trump and Xi would strive, along with North Korean Chairman Kim Jong Un, to “see a nuclear free Korean Peninsula.”

“President Trump expressed his friendship and respect for Chairman Kim,” it said.

Xi expressed openness to approving a previously unapproved Qualcomm-NXP deal, should it be presented to him again, it said.

The White House statement called the meeting “highly successful.”

“This was an amazing and productive meeting with unlimited possibilities for both the United States and China. It is my great honor to be working with President Xi,” Trump said.

The White House statement confirmed Chinese media reports that said no additional tariffs would be imposed after January 1, and that negotiations between the two sides would continue.

After the meeting, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters that the meeting went “very well.”

The dinner between Trump and Xi lasted nearly two-and-a-half hours — an hour longer than expected, according to the South China Morning Post.

At the end of the dinner, a big round of applause could be heard, and an unplanned family photo was taken, according to the paper.

In fact, it is going so well the two sides decide to take a "family photo" at the end – which is not something in the original plan. — Chungyan Chow (@ChungyanChow) December 1, 2018

The attendees of the dinner on the U.S. side included: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Chief of Staff John Kelly, United States Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, National Security Adviser Ambassador John Bolton, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor Jared Kushner, Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy Peter Navarro, Deputy Assistant to the President for Asian Affairs Matthew Pottinger, as well as two interpreters.-------------------20 Violent Crimes Eligible for Early Release Under Criminal Justice Reform





A Republican U.S. Senate document circulating among GOP offices opposed to the so-called FIRST STEP Act, a criminal justice reform bill making its way through Capitol Hill, lists 20 violent crimes that would be eligible for early release under the legislation.

It remains to be seen if these matters will be addressed in the final version of the legislation, which is still in flux, but this circulating GOP Senate document illustrates just how divisive this particular legislative push is proving to be inside the GOP at a critical time for the party.

The staff-level letter, which lists the crimes that include drug trafficking, assaulting law enforcement, and making death threats against U.S. lawmakers, begins by addressing where this information came from.

A GOP Senate staffer wrote to colleagues in the letter obtained by Breitbart News exclusively:

I wanted to share some additional information about the FIRST STEP Act that may be of interest to your office. As the Department of Justice has confirmed, the bill creates a new time credit system that allows inmates to earn early release worth up to one-third of their sentence. Some offenders are ineligible to receive these early release time credits because the offense is listed on an ‘exclusion list’. But here is a partial list of crimes that an offender can commit and still be eligible for significant early release, according to Department of Justice Attorneys.

From there, the letter goes on to list the 20 violent crimes that would be eligible for early release under the bill:

Trafficking cocaine or methamphetamines, even if convicted as a kingpin (18 U.S.C § 841(b) Strangling a spouse or an intimate partner (18 U.S.C. §113(a)(8) Trafficking fentanyl, except in rare cases (18 U.S.C. § 841(b)) Providing or possessing contraband, including firearms, in prison (18 U.S.C. § 1791) Felonies committed while in a criminal street gang (18 U.S.C. § 521) Escape of prisoners (18 U.S.C. § 751) Rioting in a correctional facility (18 U.S.C. § 1792) Importing aliens for prostitution (18 U.S.C. § 1328) Assault with intent to commit rape or sexual abuse (18 U.S.C. § 3559(c)(2)(F)) Threatening to murder a congressman, senator, or government official (18 U.S.C. § 115(a)(1) Drug-related robberies involving assault with a dangerous weapon (18 U.S.C. § 2118(c)(1) Violent carjacking resulting in serious bodily injury (18 U.S.C. § 2119(2)) Stealing immigration documents for the purpose of keeping an immigrant in slavery (18 U.S.C. § 1592) Attempt or conspiracy to engage in human smuggling (18 U.S.C. § 1592) Failing to register as a sex offender (18 U.S.C. § 2250) Arson (18 U.S.C. § 81) Blackmail (18 U.S.C. § 873) Domestic assault by an habitual offender (18 U.S.C. § 117) Hate crimes (18 U.S.C. § 249) Assaulting a law enforcement officer with a deadly weapon (18 U.S.C. § 111(b))

At that point, the GOP senate document lists a series of questions for proponents of the bill:

Would you consider these low-level or non-violent crimes? How can we trust the BOP to correctly categorize who is high vs. low risk? If the reasons these are not on the list is because they are obscure crimes, why is drug trafficking – the single most common offense – missing? Why are obscure violations of the Atomic Energy Code on the exclusion list but not these crimes? If you added provisions to the bill that Senator Booker and Democrats wanted, why won’t you add more violent crimes to the ‘exclusion from early release’ list that Republicans want? Why have an exclusion list in the first place if these crimes are missing from it? Can you promise that no offender who commits these crimes will ever be released early? How many offenders are in prison for each of these crimes and how many will be eligible to be released into my home state?

The fight over this bill is rankling some latent divisions between Republicans, pitting some from the more libertarian wing of the party against others from the more law-and-order wing. Complicating matters is that the White House has endorsed the bill, but it remains to be seen how serious this push for an overhaul of criminal justice guidelines truly is for now. It’s no secret, for instance, that Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR)–a staunch ally of President Donald Trump’s in the U.S. Senate–is ardently opposed to the legislation, and has worked publicly against it, even getting into Twitter spats with proponents like Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT).

If this push is serious, it also remains to be seen when exactly this matter would be accomplished. With just a few weeks left in the lame duck session of Congress at the end of this year, and looming farm bill and spending bill battles–two significant must-pass legislative behemoths–the calendar has slim to no room for ambitious reform projects of lawmakers. A hobbled GOP, which strengthened its U.S. Senate majority but lost its House majority in the November midterm elections, may aim to work with Democrats next year on such a project–but other big picture bipartisan fights like infrastructure or paid family leave may take precedence over this one because of how divisive it is inside the president’s party.-------------------20 Violent Crimes Eligible for Early Release Under Criminal Justice Reform





A Republican U.S. Senate document circulating among GOP offices opposed to the so-called FIRST STEP Act, a criminal justice reform bill making its way through Capitol Hill, lists 20 violent crimes that would be eligible for early release under the legislation.

It remains to be seen if these matters will be addressed in the final version of the legislation, which is still in flux, but this circulating GOP Senate document illustrates just how divisive this particular legislative push is proving to be inside the GOP at a critical time for the party.

The staff-level letter, which lists the crimes that include drug trafficking, assaulting law enforcement, and making death threats against U.S. lawmakers, begins by addressing where this information came from.

A GOP Senate staffer wrote to colleagues in the letter obtained by Breitbart News exclusively:

I wanted to share some additional information about the FIRST STEP Act that may be of interest to your office. As the Department of Justice has confirmed, the bill creates a new time credit system that allows inmates to earn early release worth up to one-third of their sentence. Some offenders are ineligible to receive these early release time credits because the offense is listed on an ‘exclusion list’. But here is a partial list of crimes that an offender can commit and still be eligible for significant early release, according to Department of Justice Attorneys.

From there, the letter goes on to list the 20 violent crimes that would be eligible for early release under the bill:

Trafficking cocaine or methamphetamines, even if convicted as a kingpin (18 U.S.C § 841(b) Strangling a spouse or an intimate partner (18 U.S.C. §113(a)(8) Trafficking fentanyl, except in rare cases (18 U.S.C. § 841(b)) Providing or possessing contraband, including firearms, in prison (18 U.S.C. § 1791) Felonies committed while in a criminal street gang (18 U.S.C. § 521) Escape of prisoners (18 U.S.C. § 751) Rioting in a correctional facility (18 U.S.C. § 1792) Importing aliens for prostitution (18 U.S.C. § 1328) Assault with intent to commit rape or sexual abuse (18 U.S.C. § 3559(c)(2)(F)) Threatening to murder a congressman, senator, or government official (18 U.S.C. § 115(a)(1) Drug-related robberies involving assault with a dangerous weapon (18 U.S.C. § 2118(c)(1) Violent carjacking resulting in serious bodily injury (18 U.S.C. § 2119(2)) Stealing immigration documents for the purpose of keeping an immigrant in slavery (18 U.S.C. § 1592) Attempt or conspiracy to engage in human smuggling (18 U.S.C. § 1592) Failing to register as a sex offender (18 U.S.C. § 2250) Arson (18 U.S.C. § 81) Blackmail (18 U.S.C. § 873) Domestic assault by an habitual offender (18 U.S.C. § 117) Hate crimes (18 U.S.C. § 249) Assaulting a law enforcement officer with a deadly weapon (18 U.S.C. § 111(b))

At that point, the GOP senate document lists a series of questions for proponents of the bill:

Would you consider these low-level or non-violent crimes? How can we trust the BOP to correctly categorize who is high vs. low risk? If the reasons these are not on the list is because they are obscure crimes, why is drug trafficking – the single most common offense – missing? Why are obscure violations of the Atomic Energy Code on the exclusion list but not these crimes? If you added provisions to the bill that Senator Booker and Democrats wanted, why won’t you add more violent crimes to the ‘exclusion from early release’ list that Republicans want? Why have an exclusion list in the first place if these crimes are missing from it? Can you promise that no offender who commits these crimes will ever be released early? How many offenders are in prison for each of these crimes and how many will be eligible to be released into my home state?

The fight over this bill is rankling some latent divisions between Republicans, pitting some from the more libertarian wing of the party against others from the more law-and-order wing. Complicating matters is that the White House has endorsed the bill, but it remains to be seen how serious this push for an overhaul of criminal justice guidelines truly is for now. It’s no secret, for instance, that Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR)–a staunch ally of President Donald Trump’s in the U.S. Senate–is ardently opposed to the legislation, and has worked publicly against it, even getting into Twitter spats with proponents like Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT).

If this push is serious, it also remains to be seen when exactly this matter would be accomplished. With just a few weeks left in the lame duck session of Congress at the end of this year, and looming farm bill and spending bill battles–two significant must-pass legislative behemoths–the calendar has slim to no room for ambitious reform projects of lawmakers. A hobbled GOP, which strengthened its U.S. Senate majority but lost its House majority in the November midterm elections, may aim to work with Democrats next year on such a project–but other big picture bipartisan fights like infrastructure or paid family leave may take precedence over this one because of how divisive it is inside the president’s party.-------------------Armed Services Chairmen Ask Trump Not to Cut Defense Budget for 2020





Chairmen of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Jim Inhofe (R-OK), who oversee the yearly passage of the defense budget, implored the Trump administration not to go through with a potential $33 billion cut to the 2020 defense budget in an op-ed published in the Wall Street Journal Friday.

The Pentagon has been preparing for months to request a $733 billion defense budget from Congress by February 4, but recent remarks from the president has put that in doubt. Facing pressure on shrinking the nation’s debt, Trump in October told reporters that the defense budget request would “probably be $700 billion” — a 2.3 percent cut from the planned $733 billion.

Pentagon officials say they will submit both a $700 billion and a $733 billion budget and discuss what the trade-offs would be.

Thornberry and Inhofe’s op-ed indicates they will fight for the higher number.

They argued that the Obama administration had depleted the military by asking a shrinking force with aging equipment and declining budgets to fight wars and perform other missions around the world. They acknowledged that gridlock on Capitol Hill contributed to the problem. “The result was a readiness crisis with tragic, sometimes fatal consequences for American troops,” they said.

The Trump administration’s defense budgets of $700 billion in 2018 and $716 billion in 2019 had helped put the military on a better path, they argued. “His first two budget requests focused on restoring America’s military advantage. Congress followed through this year. For the first time in a decade, we funded the troops in full and on time,” they wrote.

A “last-minute directive” to cut $33 billion would be “dangerous,” they argued, since the Pentagon would cut from areas that could be trimmed fastest and easiest — troop levels, new equipment, training, and maintenance. Doing so would diminish the capability to stay ahead of China and Russia, they argued.

They said China and Russia have rapidly modernized their militaries, and the U.S. advantage has eroded in the key areas of power projection, cyberdefense, space, electronic warfare, air and missile defense, antisubmarine warfare, and long-range ground-based fires.

They referenced a recent report by the bipartisan National Defense Strategy Commission that said the U.S. currently “might struggle to win, or perhaps lose, a war against China or Russia.”

Thornberry and Inhofe said they are also concerned by the growing national debt, but argued the budget should not be balanced “on the backs of America’s troops.”

“Some Democrats may embrace this cut, seeking tax dollars to spend on their own priorities,” they argued. “But cutting defense will not close the deficit. The deficit would keep growing even if we eliminated the entire Pentagon budget.”

“The president and Congress should not be duped into a false choice: rebuild our military or accept deep and growing deficits. This was a foolish argument when President Obama made it, and it hasn’t improved with age,” they said.

They acknowledged “there is money to be saved in the Pentagon,” but said it should be done through deliberate reforms, and not last-minute cuts.

“Too much is at stake. This is a time to follow through on the progress of the past two years and give our troops the sustained, sufficient, predictable funding they deserve,” they said.-------------------Armed Services Chairmen Ask Trump Not to Cut Defense Budget for 2020





Chairmen of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Jim Inhofe (R-OK), who oversee the yearly passage of the defense budget, implored the Trump administration not to go through with a potential $33 billion cut to the 2020 defense budget in an op-ed published in the Wall Street Journal Friday.

The Pentagon has been preparing for months to request a $733 billion defense budget from Congress by February 4, but recent remarks from the president has put that in doubt. Facing pressure on shrinking the nation’s debt, Trump in October told reporters that the defense budget request would “probably be $700 billion” — a 2.3 percent cut from the planned $733 billion.

Pentagon officials say they will submit both a $700 billion and a $733 billion budget and discuss what the trade-offs would be.

Thornberry and Inhofe’s op-ed indicates they will fight for the higher number.

They argued that the Obama administration had depleted the military by asking a shrinking force with aging equipment and declining budgets to fight wars and perform other missions around the world. They acknowledged that gridlock on Capitol Hill contributed to the problem. “The result was a readiness crisis with tragic, sometimes fatal consequences for American troops,” they said.

The Trump administration’s defense budgets of $700 billion in 2018 and $716 billion in 2019 had helped put the military on a better path, they argued. “His first two budget requests focused on restoring America’s military advantage. Congress followed through this year. For the first time in a decade, we funded the troops in full and on time,” they wrote.

A “last-minute directive” to cut $33 billion would be “dangerous,” they argued, since the Pentagon would cut from areas that could be trimmed fastest and easiest — troop levels, new equipment, training, and maintenance. Doing so would diminish the capability to stay ahead of China and Russia, they argued.

They said China and Russia have rapidly modernized their militaries, and the U.S. advantage has eroded in the key areas of power projection, cyberdefense, space, electronic warfare, air and missile defense, antisubmarine warfare, and long-range ground-based fires.

They referenced a recent report by the bipartisan National Defense Strategy Commission that said the U.S. currently “might struggle to win, or perhaps lose, a war against China or Russia.”

Thornberry and Inhofe said they are also concerned by the growing national debt, but argued the budget should not be balanced “on the backs of America’s troops.”

“Some Democrats may embrace this cut, seeking tax dollars to spend on their own priorities,” they argued. “But cutting defense will not close the deficit. The deficit would keep growing even if we eliminated the entire Pentagon budget.”

“The president and Congress should not be duped into a false choice: rebuild our military or accept deep and growing deficits. This was a foolish argument when President Obama made it, and it hasn’t improved with age,” they said.

They acknowledged “there is money to be saved in the Pentagon,” but said it should be done through deliberate reforms, and not last-minute cuts.

“Too much is at stake. This is a time to follow through on the progress of the past two years and give our troops the sustained, sufficient, predictable funding they deserve,” they said.-------------------Trump Stands His Ground on Climate Change at G20 Summit





Members of the Group of 20 nations concluded their two-day summit on Saturday, announcing agreement on trade priorities, including reforming the World Trade Organization (WTO).

But only 19 of those nations wanted to confirm their commitment to the Paris climate change agreement, with President Donald Trump sticking by his decision to withdraw the United States from the accord.

The Associated Press (AP) reported on the final statement issued:

The statement acknowledges flaws in the world trading system and calls for reforming the World Trade Organization. It doesn’t mention protectionism, however, because negotiators said the U.S. had resisted that. The statement says 19 of the members reiterated their commitment to the Paris climate accord but the U.S. reiterates its decision to withdraw. The non-binding agreement was reached after difficult all-night talks by diplomats.

Trump announced his decision in June, saying it is in keeping with his America First agenda.

“In order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord,” Trump said.

He said his administration would, however, be willing to “begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris Accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States, its businesses, its workers, its people, its taxpayers.”

“We will see if we can make a deal that’s fair. And if we can, that’s great. And if we can’t, that’s fine,” Trump said, adding that he was making what is beneficial to Americans his top priority.

“This includes ending the implementation of the nationally determined contribution and, very importantly, the Green Climate Fund, which is costing the United States a vast fortune,” Trump said.

Follow Penny Starr on Twitter-------------------Trump Stands His Ground on Climate Change at G20 Summit





Members of the Group of 20 nations concluded their two-day summit on Saturday, announcing agreement on trade priorities, including reforming the World Trade Organization (WTO).

But only 19 of those nations wanted to confirm their commitment to the Paris climate change agreement, with President Donald Trump sticking by his decision to withdraw the United States from the accord.

The Associated Press (AP) reported on the final statement issued:

The statement acknowledges flaws in the world trading system and calls for reforming the World Trade Organization. It doesn’t mention protectionism, however, because negotiators said the U.S. had resisted that. The statement says 19 of the members reiterated their commitment to the Paris climate accord but the U.S. reiterates its decision to withdraw. The non-binding agreement was reached after difficult all-night talks by diplomats.

Trump announced his decision in June, saying it is in keeping with his America First agenda.

“In order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord,” Trump said.

He said his administration would, however, be willing to “begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris Accord or a really entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States, its businesses, its workers, its people, its taxpayers.”

“We will see if we can make a deal that’s fair. And if we can, that’s great. And if we can’t, that’s fine,” Trump said, adding that he was making what is beneficial to Americans his top priority.

“This includes ending the implementation of the nationally determined contribution and, very importantly, the Green Climate Fund, which is costing the United States a vast fortune,” Trump said.

Follow Penny Starr on Twitter-------------------Planned Parenthood Affiliate Ends Basic Healthcare, Continues Abortions





Planned Parenthood’s affiliate in Boise, Idaho, has announced it is ending its primary healthcare services but will continue to perform abortions.

Kara Cadwallader, vice president of medical affairs and senior medical director for Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest and the Hawaiian Islands, said basic healthcare services would be discontinued because of the lack of patients asking for these services, reported Boise State Public Radio.

Cadwallader said people had access to basic healthcare services elsewhere.

Our goal is to treat every person who comes through our doors with compassion, dignity, and respect while getting them the care they need — no matter their background, identity, or income. https://t.co/7M3QX2TBV5 #ThisIsHealthCare pic.twitter.com/fynS3iZP99 — Planned Parenthood (@PPFA) November 29, 2018

In fact, federally qualified community health centers– which do not provide abortions – provide more comprehensive health care services than those offered by Planned Parenthood. These health centers outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics 20 to 1.

In September 2016, Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest and the Hawaiian Islands announced “primary care services” would be offered at a number of its affiliates, including its facility in Boise.

The abortion vendor announced services for high blood pressure, low thyroid, high cholesterol, type 2 diabetes, asthma and GERD (gastroesophageal reflux) would be available at these facilities, as well as treatment for sinus infections, coughs, and colds.

“People tend to have preconceived notions about Planned Parenthood, so we are pleased to bring these services to our health centers to complement the quality reproductive and sexual health care we already provide,” Chris Charbonneau, CEO of the Planned Parenthood affiliate said at the time. “With these new service offerings, we are able to offer more comprehensive care to the women and men who rely on us.”

However, a 2017 study by the Charlotte Lozier Institute (CLI), the research arm of the pro-life Susan B. Anthony List, found Planned Parenthood depends primarily on its abortion-centered business model – and is not a significant provider of medical care in the United States, despite its self-promotion as an “irreplaceable” and “life-saving” healthcare provider, as its advocates often profess.

The report observed that Planned Parenthood provides less than 1.4 percent of the nation’s HIV tests and less than one percent of pap tests. Additionally, in the last five years, service-to-client ratios for breast exams and pap tests have declined by 37 percent.

“There is little or no demonstrable capability for definitive diagnosis or a range of treatments for any disease or condition at Planned Parenthood centers,” the CLI study’s authors wrote. “With the exception of abortion, Planned Parenthood does not provide any service that is not easily available from alternative providers.”

Planned Parenthood’s own annual report shows most of its real healthcare services have been in decline as the organization has made its priority to become a political lobbying powerhouse.

The number of prenatal services during 2016-2017 dropped to 7,762 – a 17 percent decline from the 9,419 performed during 2015-2016. In 2014-2015, Planned Parenthood claimed 17,419 prenatal services.

“Planned Parenthood promotes itself as an indispensable health care provider and community asset, while downplaying its role as the nation’s largest abortion vendor,” the CLI authors observed. “This fiction is essential to justifying the half billion dollars in annual taxpayer funding they receive, but their own data paint an entirely different picture.”-------------------Planned Parenthood Affiliate Ends Basic Healthcare, Continues Abortions





Planned Parenthood’s affiliate in Boise, Idaho, has announced it is ending its primary healthcare services but will continue to perform abortions.

Kara Cadwallader, vice president of medical affairs and senior medical director for Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest and the Hawaiian Islands, said basic healthcare services would be discontinued because of the lack of patients asking for these services, reported Boise State Public Radio.

Cadwallader said people had access to basic healthcare services elsewhere.

Our goal is to treat every person who comes through our doors with compassion, dignity, and respect while getting them the care they need — no matter their background, identity, or income. https://t.co/7M3QX2TBV5 #ThisIsHealthCare pic.twitter.com/fynS3iZP99 — Planned Parenthood (@PPFA) November 29, 2018

In fact, federally qualified community health centers– which do not provide abortions – provide more comprehensive health care services than those offered by Planned Parenthood. These health centers outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics 20 to 1.

In September 2016, Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest and the Hawaiian Islands announced “primary care services” would be offered at a number of its affiliates, including its facility in Boise.

The abortion vendor announced services for high blood pressure, low thyroid, high cholesterol, type 2 diabetes, asthma and GERD (gastroesophageal reflux) would be available at these facilities, as well as treatment for sinus infections, coughs, and colds.

“People tend to have preconceived notions about Planned Parenthood, so we are pleased to bring these services to our health centers to complement the quality reproductive and sexual health care we already provide,” Chris Charbonneau, CEO of the Planned Parenthood affiliate said at the time. “With these new service offerings, we are able to offer more comprehensive care to the women and men who rely on us.”

However, a 2017 study by the Charlotte Lozier Institute (CLI), the research arm of the pro-life Susan B. Anthony List, found Planned Parenthood depends primarily on its abortion-centered business model – and is not a significant provider of medical care in the United States, despite its self-promotion as an “irreplaceable” and “life-saving” healthcare provider, as its advocates often profess.

The report observed that Planned Parenthood provides less than 1.4 percent of the nation’s HIV tests and less than one percent of pap tests. Additionally, in the last five years, service-to-client ratios for breast exams and pap tests have declined by 37 percent.

“There is little or no demonstrable capability for definitive diagnosis or a range of treatments for any disease or condition at Planned Parenthood centers,” the CLI study’s authors wrote. “With the exception of abortion, Planned Parenthood does not provide any service that is not easily available from alternative providers.”

Planned Parenthood’s own annual report shows most of its real healthcare services have been in decline as the organization has made its priority to become a political lobbying powerhouse.

The number of prenatal services during 2016-2017 dropped to 7,762 – a 17 percent decline from the 9,419 performed during 2015-2016. In 2014-2015, Planned Parenthood claimed 17,419 prenatal services.

“Planned Parenthood promotes itself as an indispensable health care provider and community asset, while downplaying its role as the nation’s largest abortion vendor,” the CLI authors observed. “This fiction is essential to justifying the half billion dollars in annual taxpayer funding they receive, but their own data paint an entirely different picture.”-------------------WATCH: Brad Parscale Shuts Down PBS Reporter Who Blames Trump for ‘Post-Truth World’





Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale swatted away a PBS interviewer’s attempt to blame President Donald Trump and tech platforms like Facebook for spreading “divisive” messages and “opinion” rather than news, in a long-form interview.

The full interview was recorded for the new PBS Frontline documentary The Facebook Dilemma and can be watched below.

The interviewer repeatedly tries to tie President Donald Trump and the Trump campaign to the spread of “divisive” content on social media, arguing that Facebook makes it easy for such content to spread. But Parscale swatted down his arguments.

Parscale attacked the media-concocted panic over fake news, saying, “are we going to start having panels where there are judge and juries that determine every article whether it’s true or not? … Who decides what’s [divisive]?”

The Trump 2020 campaign manager argued that we should trust in the reasoning abilities of American citizens to separate truth from falsehood, not a tiny minority of Silicon Valley elites.

“I think it’s no different than every church on Sunday afterward, all those people going in there and speaking. If they’re not on Facebook, they’re going to go talk to their neighbors. It’s how we’ve communicated for thousands of years. We’ve talked to each other. We’ve given ourselves opinions, and we’ve done things. Our job as humans is to say, “Did my neighbor just tell me the truth or not?” And I don’t know, I just don’t think any platform is going to be able to regulate what is true and not true.”

When the PBS interviewer argued that opinion is more successful than news on Facebook, Parscale countered that “a really well-written news article goes very viral.” Parscale said that Facebook should do a better job at labeling content instead of trying to suppress it.

ut then they should do a better job on those pages and say this is opinion and not sell it like it’s news.

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.-------------------WATCH: Brad Parscale Shuts Down PBS Reporter Who Blames Trump for ‘Post-Truth World’





Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale swatted away a PBS interviewer’s attempt to blame President Donald Trump and tech platforms like Facebook for spreading “divisive” messages and “opinion” rather than news, in a long-form interview.

The full interview was recorded for the new PBS Frontline documentary The Facebook Dilemma and can be watched below.

The interviewer repeatedly tries to tie President Donald Trump and the Trump campaign to the spread of “divisive” content on social media, arguing that Facebook makes it easy for such content to spread. But Parscale swatted down his arguments.

Parscale attacked the media-concocted panic over fake news, saying, “are we going to start having panels where there are judge and juries that determine every article whether it’s true or not? … Who decides what’s [divisive]?”

The Trump 2020 campaign manager argued that we should trust in the reasoning abilities of American citizens to separate truth from falsehood, not a tiny minority of Silicon Valley elites.

“I think it’s no different than every church on Sunday afterward, all those people going in there and speaking. If they’re not on Facebook, they’re going to go talk to their neighbors. It’s how we’ve communicated for thousands of years. We’ve talked to each other. We’ve given ourselves opinions, and we’ve done things. Our job as humans is to say, “Did my neighbor just tell me the truth or not?” And I don’t know, I just don’t think any platform is going to be able to regulate what is true and not true.”

When the PBS interviewer argued that opinion is more successful than news on Facebook, Parscale countered that “a really well-written news article goes very viral.” Parscale said that Facebook should do a better job at labeling content instead of trying to suppress it.

ut then they should do a better job on those pages and say this is opinion and not sell it like it’s news.

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.-------------------Rick Scott Ousts Broward’s Brenda Snipes Over ‘Inexcusable Actions’





Citing “misfeasance, incompetence and neglect of duty,” outgoing Florida Gov. Rick Scott issued an executive order on Friday that immediately suspends Broward County election chief Brenda Snipes, who faced widespread criticism over her handling of the midterm elections.

“After a series of inexcusable actions, it’s clear that there needs to be an immediate change in Broward County and taxpayers should no longer be burdened by paying a salary for a supervisor of elections who has already announced resignation,” Scott stated.

Scott further accused Broward election officials of “missed deadlines,” “lost ballots,” and “not being able to report basic information to the public.”

Scott appointed Peter Antonacci, president and CEO of Enterprise Florida, an economic development agency, to serve the rest of Snipes’ term until a November 2020 vote is held to choose Snipe’s replacement.

The Sun-Sentinel reported that it was unclear whether Scott’s decision will impact Snipes’ eligibility to collect nearly $130,000 per year from a state pension.

Scott’s own recount in his ultimately victorious Senate race was impacted by numerous missteps inside Snipes’ Broward County office, including a 2,040-vote discrepancy in the number of ballots cast in Broward during the Midterm Elections. Snipes claimed the purportedly missing ballots were in her office as her staff mounted an unsuccessful search.

Snipes’ office also reportedly mixed 20 rejected ballots with a sampling of 205 valid provisional ones in the most recent election. The discrepancy was reportedly found only after uproar from the Republican Party resulted in the Broward County canvassing board inspecting those provisional ballots.

Scott had called on Florida’s Department of Law Enforcement to investigate possible irregularities in ballot offices in southern Florida amid questions about the slow pace of Broward’s ballot counting and past wrongdoings by Snipes.

A judge ruled that Snipes destroyed ballots too soon in a critical 2016 Congressional race in which former Democratic National Convention (DNC) Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz won reelection.

Snipes was also ordered by a judge earlier this year to change the way she handles mail-in ballots after her office was accused of opening them in secret.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.-------------------Rick Scott Ousts Broward’s Brenda Snipes Over ‘Inexcusable Actions’





Citing “misfeasance, incompetence and neglect of duty,” outgoing Florida Gov. Rick Scott issued an executive order on Friday that immediately suspends Broward County election chief Brenda Snipes, who faced widespread criticism over her handling of the midterm elections.

“After a series of inexcusable actions, it’s clear that there needs to be an immediate change in Broward County and taxpayers should no longer be burdened by paying a salary for a supervisor of elections who has already announced resignation,” Scott stated.

Scott further accused Broward election officials of “missed deadlines,” “lost ballots,” and “not being able to report basic information to the public.”

Scott appointed Peter Antonacci, president and CEO of Enterprise Florida, an economic development agency, to serve the rest of Snipes’ term until a November 2020 vote is held to choose Snipe’s replacement.

The Sun-Sentinel reported that it was unclear whether Scott’s decision will impact Snipes’ eligibility to collect nearly $130,000 per year from a state pension.

Scott’s own recount in his ultimately victorious Senate race was impacted by numerous missteps inside Snipes’ Broward County office, including a 2,040-vote discrepancy in the number of ballots cast in Broward during the Midterm Elections. Snipes claimed the purportedly missing ballots were in her office as her staff mounted an unsuccessful search.

Snipes’ office also reportedly mixed 20 rejected ballots with a sampling of 205 valid provisional ones in the most recent election. The discrepancy was reportedly found only after uproar from the Republican Party resulted in the Broward County canvassing board inspecting those provisional ballots.

Scott had called on Florida’s Department of Law Enforcement to investigate possible irregularities in ballot offices in southern Florida amid questions about the slow pace of Broward’s ballot counting and past wrongdoings by Snipes.

A judge ruled that Snipes destroyed ballots too soon in a critical 2016 Congressional race in which former Democratic National Convention (DNC) Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz won reelection.

Snipes was also ordered by a judge earlier this year to change the way she handles mail-in ballots after her office was accused of opening them in secret.

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.-------------------Third of Theresa May's Trade Envoys Will Not Back Her Brexit Deal





Theresa May’s “worst deal in history” with the European Union will be voted against by “at least a third and possibly up to half” of the 21 envoys she has appointed to support new trade deals after Brexit.

A number of the MPs approached Sky News, who understand that “at least seven, and as many as 10” of them will vote against the Brexit deal, denouncing her claim that it takes back control of Britain’s trade policy as “very disingenuous”.

The Prime Minister’s deal will see Britain remain effectively a non-voting EU member-state for a “transition” period of at least two years, which could be extended to four, with new trade deals prevented by the bloc’s Common Commercial Policy and Common External Tariff.

Even after this, the United Kingdom may find itself forced into a “single customs territory” covering goods and agri-products under the so-called “backstop”, which Mrs May has agreed Britain will not be allowed to leave without the EU’s agreement.

Boris: Collecting Customs Duties for EU After Brexit ‘an Absolute Humiliation’ https://t.co/pvVAHuPs2V — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 29, 2018

“For some trade envoys who have spent a lot of time working with governments and businesses to promote trade deals, which will now be affected by staying in existing tariff rates, this is very frustrating because it makes our job harder; it has led people up the garden path,” commented Tim Loughton MP, who has been acting as an envoy in Africa.

“There’ll be no trade deals until we fully exit the Customs Union,” another, anonymous envoy told Sky bluntly.

“I will need to make lots of calls saying ‘sorry let’s put the trade agreement on hold, [we’re] in a waiting room for three to four years’,” he complained.

“It makes us look double-minded and confused, and is not a good look for Global Britain.”

Barnier: May Requested Brexit Customs Union ‘Backstop’ With No Exit, Not the EU https://t.co/olt1blldAX — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 19, 2018

The fall out comes as U.S. President Donald Trump told journalists the Prime Minister’s withdrawal agreement looked like “a good deal for the EU” after discussing it with Brexit campaign leader Nigel Farage.

President Trump, who has been keen to negotiate a Brexit deal with the United Kingdom — his country’s single-largest trade and investment partner, and vice versa — expressed concern that Mrs May’s deal would make it difficult for the British to trade with the European Union.

The Prime Minister had denied this, pointing to references in the entirely non-binding “political declaration” on the future UK-EU relationship to an “independent trade policy”, but the fact that up to half of her own trade envoys do not believe it will be possible for them to do their jobs suggest the President was right to be concerned.

Trump’s Ambassador: Britain First in Line for ‘Ambitious’ Trade Deal… If You Manage to Leave the EU https://t.co/3qESgbnt7c — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 28, 2018

Follow Jack Montgomery on Twitter: @JackBMontgomery-------------------Third of Theresa May's Trade Envoys Will Not Back Her Brexit Deal





Theresa May’s “worst deal in history” with the European Union will be voted against by “at least a third and possibly up to half” of the 21 envoys she has appointed to support new trade deals after Brexit.

A number of the MPs approached Sky News, who understand that “at least seven, and as many as 10” of them will vote against the Brexit deal, denouncing her claim that it takes back control of Britain’s trade policy as “very disingenuous”.

The Prime Minister’s deal will see Britain remain effectively a non-voting EU member-state for a “transition” period of at least two years, which could be extended to four, with new trade deals prevented by the bloc’s Common Commercial Policy and Common External Tariff.

Even after this, the United Kingdom may find itself forced into a “single customs territory” covering goods and agri-products under the so-called “backstop”, which Mrs May has agreed Britain will not be allowed to leave without the EU’s agreement.

Boris: Collecting Customs Duties for EU After Brexit ‘an Absolute Humiliation’ https://t.co/pvVAHuPs2V — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 29, 2018

“For some trade envoys who have spent a lot of time working with governments and businesses to promote trade deals, which will now be affected by staying in existing tariff rates, this is very frustrating because it makes our job harder; it has led people up the garden path,” commented Tim Loughton MP, who has been acting as an envoy in Africa.

“There’ll be no trade deals until we fully exit the Customs Union,” another, anonymous envoy told Sky bluntly.

“I will need to make lots of calls saying ‘sorry let’s put the trade agreement on hold, [we’re] in a waiting room for three to four years’,” he complained.

“It makes us look double-minded and confused, and is not a good look for Global Britain.”

Barnier: May Requested Brexit Customs Union ‘Backstop’ With No Exit, Not the EU https://t.co/olt1blldAX — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 19, 2018

The fall out comes as U.S. President Donald Trump told journalists the Prime Minister’s withdrawal agreement looked like “a good deal for the EU” after discussing it with Brexit campaign leader Nigel Farage.

President Trump, who has been keen to negotiate a Brexit deal with the United Kingdom — his country’s single-largest trade and investment partner, and vice versa — expressed concern that Mrs May’s deal would make it difficult for the British to trade with the European Union.

The Prime Minister had denied this, pointing to references in the entirely non-binding “political declaration” on the future UK-EU relationship to an “independent trade policy”, but the fact that up to half of her own trade envoys do not believe it will be possible for them to do their jobs suggest the President was right to be concerned.

Trump’s Ambassador: Britain First in Line for ‘Ambitious’ Trade Deal… If You Manage to Leave the EU https://t.co/3qESgbnt7c — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 28, 2018

Follow Jack Montgomery on Twitter: @JackBMontgomery-------------------Watch: Leslie Stahl Asks George Bush if the 1985 Republican Theme is ‘We the White People’





It is a scene that would be familiar to anyone watching mainstream media coverage of politics today.

A television journalist begins an interview with a member of the controversial Republican administration with a question challenging him to defend himself against the accusation that his party is secretly advancing a racist agenda. And then follows up asking why the Republican remains loyal to the GOP president when obviously this is going to hurt him in future elections.

But the setting for this exchange was not 2018. The journalist did not work for a cable news network. And it was not the Trump administration that stood accused of racism.

It was the Reagan administration. The question came from Leslie Stahl of CBS News in a 1985 interview with George Bush.

“Let me ask you a question President Reagan was asked earlier this week, and that is about the theme of the inauguration, ‘We the People,'” Stahl said. “Some people feel that the theme is really ‘We the White People.'”

“Well, I hope that’s not what the inauguration conveys,” Bush responded. “Because the answer to those who have been left behind is to have a continued recovery.”

Stahl goes on to ask Vice President Bush if his loyalty to President Ronald Reagan, who had just won re-election in a landslide, would be a liability if he wanted to run himself in 1988. It was an extraordinary question to ask, revealing how much the Washington media despised Reagan even at the height of his popularity.

“You were lampooned, to say the least, during the campaign, for being so supportive, constantly loyal. If you do decide to run for president in 1988, won’t that have hurt your image if you continue standing out, being always supportive?” Stahl asked.

Bush saw this idea that loyalty to the president would be politically damaging for the leftist fantasy that it was.

“I know there’s a fascination in some–I’d say mostly the liberal quarters–with, ‘Why is he supporting the president like this?’ But I don’t agree with that,” Bush said. “I think loyalty, as I said a while back, I don’t think it’s a character flaw.”

Times change, names change, and administrations change. But many of the questions, particularly those that obsess mainstream media journalists, asked of Republican politicians largely remain the same.-------------------Watch: Leslie Stahl Asks George Bush if the 1985 Republican Theme is ‘We the White People’





It is a scene that would be familiar to anyone watching mainstream media coverage of politics today.

A television journalist begins an interview with a member of the controversial Republican administration with a question challenging him to defend himself against the accusation that his party is secretly advancing a racist agenda. And then follows up asking why the Republican remains loyal to the GOP president when obviously this is going to hurt him in future elections.

But the setting for this exchange was not 2018. The journalist did not work for a cable news network. And it was not the Trump administration that stood accused of racism.

It was the Reagan administration. The question came from Leslie Stahl of CBS News in a 1985 interview with George Bush.

“Let me ask you a question President Reagan was asked earlier this week, and that is about the theme of the inauguration, ‘We the People,'” Stahl said. “Some people feel that the theme is really ‘We the White People.'”

“Well, I hope that’s not what the inauguration conveys,” Bush responded. “Because the answer to those who have been left behind is to have a continued recovery.”

Stahl goes on to ask Vice President Bush if his loyalty to President Ronald Reagan, who had just won re-election in a landslide, would be a liability if he wanted to run himself in 1988. It was an extraordinary question to ask, revealing how much the Washington media despised Reagan even at the height of his popularity.

“You were lampooned, to say the least, during the campaign, for being so supportive, constantly loyal. If you do decide to run for president in 1988, won’t that have hurt your image if you continue standing out, being always supportive?” Stahl asked.

Bush saw this idea that loyalty to the president would be politically damaging for the leftist fantasy that it was.

“I know there’s a fascination in some–I’d say mostly the liberal quarters–with, ‘Why is he supporting the president like this?’ But I don’t agree with that,” Bush said. “I think loyalty, as I said a while back, I don’t think it’s a character flaw.”

Times change, names change, and administrations change. But many of the questions, particularly those that obsess mainstream media journalists, asked of Republican politicians largely remain the same.-------------------Fareed Zakaria: Has the Economy Hit ‘Peak America?’





During Sunday’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” on CNN, host Fareed Zakaria discussed the United States’ booming economy and compared it to China’s growing economy which he noted is rising “three times the pace of America.”

Zakaria asked if America has hit its “peak” while China is prepared to “quietly” surpass the country as the strongest economy.

Partial transcript as follows:

Foreign leaders note that the United States is also likely to be increasingly constrained by its mounting budget woes. The Financial Times’s Gillian Tett points out that the U.S. federal government now spends $1.4 billion a day on its debt, 10 times more than the next major industrialized country does. As interest rates rise and more Americans reach the age of collecting Social Security and Medicare, the federal government will be tightly constrained. Ezra Klein has quipped that the American government is “an insurance conglomerate protected by a large, standing army,” and soon that might well be true.

American retreat will not produce a better world. It will be messier and uglier. At a time when these forces of entropy are intensifying, when the America does face real constraints on what it can do internationally, the wisest strategy would be to bolster the international institutions and norms that the Washington built after World War II, both to maintain some degree of stability and order, but also to preserve and extend American interests and values.

The smartest path to constraining China comes not from a head-on policy of containment, but rather from a subtle one that forces Beijing to remain enmeshed and interdependent with other countries. China recognizes this and tries hard to free itself of multilateral groups, preferring to deal one-on-one with countries where its power will always overshadow the negotiating partner.

And yet, nothing animates the Trump administration more than its opposition to multilateralism of any kind. And so, as the world gets more chaotic, the forces that could provide order are being eroded. And as is so often the case, China simply watches quietly and pockets the gains.-------------------Fareed Zakaria: Has the Economy Hit ‘Peak America?’





During Sunday’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” on CNN, host Fareed Zakaria discussed the United States’ booming economy and compared it to China’s growing economy which he noted is rising “three times the pace of America.”

Zakaria asked if America has hit its “peak” while China is prepared to “quietly” surpass the country as the strongest economy.

Partial transcript as follows:

Foreign leaders note that the United States is also likely to be increasingly constrained by its mounting budget woes. The Financial Times’s Gillian Tett points out that the U.S. federal government now spends $1.4 billion a day on its debt, 10 times more than the next major industrialized country does. As interest rates rise and more Americans reach the age of collecting Social Security and Medicare, the federal government will be tightly constrained. Ezra Klein has quipped that the American government is “an insurance conglomerate protected by a large, standing army,” and soon that might well be true.

American retreat will not produce a better world. It will be messier and uglier. At a time when these forces of entropy are intensifying, when the America does face real constraints on what it can do internationally, the wisest strategy would be to bolster the international institutions and norms that the Washington built after World War II, both to maintain some degree of stability and order, but also to preserve and extend American interests and values.

The smartest path to constraining China comes not from a head-on policy of containment, but rather from a subtle one that forces Beijing to remain enmeshed and interdependent with other countries. China recognizes this and tries hard to free itself of multilateral groups, preferring to deal one-on-one with countries where its power will always overshadow the negotiating partner.

And yet, nothing animates the Trump administration more than its opposition to multilateralism of any kind. And so, as the world gets more chaotic, the forces that could provide order are being eroded. And as is so often the case, China simply watches quietly and pockets the gains.-------------------GOP Sen. Lee Teams up with Bernie on Yemen — ‘I’m Feeling the Bern’





In a sit-down interview alongside Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) told Kasie Hunt of MSNBC’s “Kasie DC” that he is “feeling the Bern” in regards to the failed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate advocating for the United States to get out of the war in Yemen.

In the interview, which aired Sunday, Sanders called the war “a horrific humanitarian disaster,” arguing the United States’ involvement is “unconstitutional.”

“The Constitution is very clear. It is the Congress that has war-making powers, not the president of the United States,” Sanders told Hunt. “This war is unauthorized and, in my view, unconstitutional.”

Hunt asked Lee for comment, and he replied, “I’m feeling the Bern. I completely agree with what he’s saying.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrent-------------------GOP Sen. Lee Teams up with Bernie on Yemen — ‘I’m Feeling the Bern’





In a sit-down interview alongside Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) told Kasie Hunt of MSNBC’s “Kasie DC” that he is “feeling the Bern” in regards to the failed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate advocating for the United States to get out of the war in Yemen.

In the interview, which aired Sunday, Sanders called the war “a horrific humanitarian disaster,” arguing the United States’ involvement is “unconstitutional.”

“The Constitution is very clear. It is the Congress that has war-making powers, not the president of the United States,” Sanders told Hunt. “This war is unauthorized and, in my view, unconstitutional.”

Hunt asked Lee for comment, and he replied, “I’m feeling the Bern. I completely agree with what he’s saying.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrent-------------------Giuliani: Mueller ‘Unethical, ‘Has Stepped Over the Line’ with ‘Intimidating People’ to Get His Version of Truth





Sunday on New York AM 970 radio’s “The Cats Roundtable,” President Donald Trump legal team member Rudy Giuliani criticized FBI special counsel Robert Mueller’s handling of the Russia investigation.

Giuliani accused Mueller of “intimidating people” to get “what he believes is his version of the truth.”

“[T]hey want [Paul Manafort] to give certain forms of evidence that would implicate the president in things that Mr. Manafort says are untrue,” Giuliani told host John Catsimatidis. “At some point, after you do this four, five, six times, you’ve got to accept the fact that Mr. Manafort maybe doesn’t have the recollection they like. And they are pressuring him and creating a real risk that the man might commit perjury.

“After a while, this kind of pressure can create the risk of tainted testimony,” he added.

Giuliani said an “ethical prosecutor would stop” interrogating Manafort and pursue getting information from someone else

“You can only exert a certain amount of pressure before it becomes unethical and destructive,” he stated.

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrent-------------------Giuliani: Mueller ‘Unethical, ‘Has Stepped Over the Line’ with ‘Intimidating People’ to Get His Version of Truth





Sunday on New York AM 970 radio’s “The Cats Roundtable,” President Donald Trump legal team member Rudy Giuliani criticized FBI special counsel Robert Mueller’s handling of the Russia investigation.

Giuliani accused Mueller of “intimidating people” to get “what he believes is his version of the truth.”

“[T]hey want [Paul Manafort] to give certain forms of evidence that would implicate the president in things that Mr. Manafort says are untrue,” Giuliani told host John Catsimatidis. “At some point, after you do this four, five, six times, you’ve got to accept the fact that Mr. Manafort maybe doesn’t have the recollection they like. And they are pressuring him and creating a real risk that the man might commit perjury.

“After a while, this kind of pressure can create the risk of tainted testimony,” he added.

Giuliani said an “ethical prosecutor would stop” interrogating Manafort and pursue getting information from someone else

“You can only exert a certain amount of pressure before it becomes unethical and destructive,” he stated.

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrent-------------------Report: Woman Shoots, Kills Intruder While Leaving for Church





A woman in Michigan shot an alleged intruder in her home Sunday morning while she was getting ready to leave for church.

WXYZ reports that the incident occurred about 10:30 am in Detroit as the woman and her daughter stepped out of the house on their way to church and were allegedly accosted by an unknown man. The mother and daughter fled back inside the home, and police said the man “forced his way inside” behind them.

The mother managed to get to her gun and fired two shots, at least one of which struck the man. First responders pronounced the man dead at the scene.

Police indicated the mother shot in self-defense and “no arrests will be made.”

This instance of defensive gun use in Detroit follows a week in which a Tulsa resident shot and killed an alleged intruder, a son shot and killed an alleged intruder at his family’s Kentucky home, and a clerk shot an alleged robber in a South Carolina cell phone store.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.-------------------Report: Woman Shoots, Kills Intruder While Leaving for Church





A woman in Michigan shot an alleged intruder in her home Sunday morning while she was getting ready to leave for church.

WXYZ reports that the incident occurred about 10:30 am in Detroit as the woman and her daughter stepped out of the house on their way to church and were allegedly accosted by an unknown man. The mother and daughter fled back inside the home, and police said the man “forced his way inside” behind them.

The mother managed to get to her gun and fired two shots, at least one of which struck the man. First responders pronounced the man dead at the scene.

Police indicated the mother shot in self-defense and “no arrests will be made.”

This instance of defensive gun use in Detroit follows a week in which a Tulsa resident shot and killed an alleged intruder, a son shot and killed an alleged intruder at his family’s Kentucky home, and a clerk shot an alleged robber in a South Carolina cell phone store.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.-------------------Six MS-13 Gang Members Accused of Butchering Massachusetts Teen





Six members of the MS-13 gang are accused of butchering a Massachusetts teenager with a knife as if they were “chopping wood.”

The gang members were charged in a Boston federal courtroom Wednesday with racketeering in connection with the August 2 slaying of 17-year-old Herson Rivas.

Authorities discovered the teen’s body in a wooded area of Lynn, a suburb located nearly four miles away from Boston.

Court documents state that one of the suspects stabbed Rivas “with such force his knife became warped during the attack.”

Prosecutors believe the MS-13 members—many of whom are illegal aliens—murdered Rivas because he was thought to be cooperating with law enforcement.

One of the six suspects, a 19-year-old Salvadorean national named Henri Salvador Gutierrez, had evaded deportation the month before the murder.

Authorities say Salvador successfully convinced an immigration judge that he was not a threat to public safety or involved in a gang.

In fact, at least four of the suspects entered the U.S. illegally from El Salvador, and immigration authorities had detained at least two of the suspects before releasing them.

“MS-13 is a ruthless, transnational gang operating in our backyard,” said U.S. Attorney Andrew E. Lelling in a statement. “This group routinely commits senseless acts of violence, including murder, to maintain control and instill fear.”

All of the suspects are in custody on state charges or detained by federal immigration officials, waiting to answer to their charges in federal court.

If convicted, the six suspects face sentences of up to life in prison.

The Salvadorean gang’s violence is well-known, even capturing the attention of President Trump, who has referred to MS-13 members as “animals” because of their heinous crimes.-------------------Six MS-13 Gang Members Accused of Butchering Massachusetts Teen





Six members of the MS-13 gang are accused of butchering a Massachusetts teenager with a knife as if they were “chopping wood.”

The gang members were charged in a Boston federal courtroom Wednesday with racketeering in connection with the August 2 slaying of 17-year-old Herson Rivas.

Authorities discovered the teen’s body in a wooded area of Lynn, a suburb located nearly four miles away from Boston.

Court documents state that one of the suspects stabbed Rivas “with such force his knife became warped during the attack.”

Prosecutors believe the MS-13 members—many of whom are illegal aliens—murdered Rivas because he was thought to be cooperating with law enforcement.

One of the six suspects, a 19-year-old Salvadorean national named Henri Salvador Gutierrez, had evaded deportation the month before the murder.

Authorities say Salvador successfully convinced an immigration judge that he was not a threat to public safety or involved in a gang.

In fact, at least four of the suspects entered the U.S. illegally from El Salvador, and immigration authorities had detained at least two of the suspects before releasing them.

“MS-13 is a ruthless, transnational gang operating in our backyard,” said U.S. Attorney Andrew E. Lelling in a statement. “This group routinely commits senseless acts of violence, including murder, to maintain control and instill fear.”

All of the suspects are in custody on state charges or detained by federal immigration officials, waiting to answer to their charges in federal court.

If convicted, the six suspects face sentences of up to life in prison.

The Salvadorean gang’s violence is well-known, even capturing the attention of President Trump, who has referred to MS-13 members as “animals” because of their heinous crimes.-------------------Trade Truce Seen as a 'Trap,' 'Disaster' by China Hawks





The trade truce between the U.S. and China delays their economic battle but creates little hope for lasting resolution of the deep divide between the two nations on the future of the global economy, according to many China analysts.

President Donald Trump and China hawks in his administration have frequently criticized prior U.S. presidents for being out-maneuvered and out-smarted by China’s tactic of engaging in endless negotiations and holding out the promise of reform while continuing to carry out its economic predation. The Obama administration spent years in what was known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue without anything of substance to show for it.

To critics of the Buenos Aires truce, the Trump administration appears to be repeating this mistake.

“The president has fallen into the same trap as Barack Obama, George W. Bush and even Bill Clinton. He will get more platitudes and promises and very few results,” University of Maryland economist Peter Morici told the Wall Street Journal.

One former administration official described the deal as “a total disaster. “We’ve now entered into the Trump version of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue,” the person said.

Dan MiMicco, a steel executive who was part of the Trump transition team, said he was disappointed with the agreement:

Is #Trump making a huge mistake? The devil is in the details! But I’d be lying if I didn’t say at first glance this is very disappointing. https://t.co/DTNR4spVKO — Dan DiMicco (@DanRDimicco) December 2, 2018

Some conservative China critics say that the deal could have been worse. For weeks leading up to the dinner, many feared the U.S. would agree to end or suspend the 10 percent tariffs. From that perspective, the worst case scenario was avoided because the Trump administration only agreed to a pause in escalation.

Not all analysts were as negative about the deal but few believe the U.S. and China were close to resolving their fundamental differences, in large part because China’s global ambitions would be thwarted by a deal that did resolve them.

The Financial Times’ Brendan Greeley wrote:

China and the US aren’t fighting over what China exports now — assembled electronics, toys, socks, furniture. They’re fighting over what China wants to make at home in the future. China has a plan to become self sufficient in electric cars, aerospace, bio-medicine and farming equipment. These things are hard to make. They require decades to figure out, and a well-educated, productive, high-wage workforce. Xi Jinping didn’t compromise on this goal in Argentina. It’s hard to see that he ever will.

“It’s good to see the U.S.-Chinese tariffs war not escalating any further,” Kang Kam-Chan, head of the South Korean trade ministry’s Trade Policy Division, said Sunday, according to the Wall Street Journal. “But the competition for holding hegemony in global industry and trade between the two powers has not changed substantially.”

“The outcome of the Trump/Xi dinner on Saturday represents nothing more than a truce in the escalating trade wars,” former Goldman Sachs partner and ex-chief of the British Broadcasting Corp. (BBC) Gavyn Davies wrote in an op-ed for the Financial Times. “Entrenched problems remain, notably around US concerns about the protection of intellectual property, and the long term direction of Chinese industrial strategy. It is still very difficult to imagine that these gulfs can be bridged without further threats of trade protection from the Trump administration.”

Less than 24 hours after the deal was struck over a dinner capping the Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires, Argentina, cracks in the truce consensus were already apparent.

The U.S. agreed not to raise the tariff on $200 billion of Chinese goods from 10 percent to 25 percent in January, as had been earlier announced, while the two sides renew trade negotiations. But China and the U.S. are already taking very different approaches to describing what was agreed.

According to the White House, the Buenos Aires truce is on a 90-day time line, after which the 10 percent tariff will rise to 25 percent. During that time, the two sides would address China’s forced technology transfer policies and intellectual property theft, the two items at the core of the U.S. complaint about China’s predatory economic practices. The White House also said that China would purchase a “very substantial” amount of farm, energy, and industrial goods in order to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S.

The U.S. made no mention of removing the existing 10 percent tariff.

China’s statements on the agreement, however, made no mention of a 90-day timeline or the possibility of tariffs rising if the deadline passed without progress. In a press briefing, Chinese officials said only that the talks would focus on removing the 10 percent tariffs and Chinese retaliatory tariffs. Chinese officials were also vague about what it might purchase from the U.S. as part of the deal.

China’s statement also said that Trump would visit China and Xi the U.S. The U.S. statement made no mention of bilateral visits by heads of state. Similarly, the official Chinese news agency said the U.S. would continue to welcome Chinese university students while the U.S. statement made no mention of the topic.

This creates the possibility that there is less to the agreement than it seems. Or even that U.S. officials have heard in Chinese statements what they hoped to hear but not what China actually intended. The U.S. has a long history of misinterpreting the statements and intentions. During the Korean War, for example, China believed it had clearly signaled that it would have to intervene militarily if U.S. troops got too close to the Chinese border. Officials from the U.S., however, misinterpreted this signal, leading to armed conflict between the two countries that was only ended by the 1953 armistice.

“Neither side got their maximum demands and it’s not the first time in U.S.-China relations that both sides claim victory,” said Michael Pillsbury, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a defense official under presidents including Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, Bloomberg News reported.

Even within the Trump administration, there is skepticism. Some administration officials have shied away from even describing it as a “deal,” preferring to call it an “announcement,” the Wall Street Journal reported. Some worry that Wall Street’s reaction to the announcement of the truce, which is seen as likely to boost stocks, will encourage the president to soften his stance even further.

“The fear is that Wall Street will applaud this as ‘progress’ and it will make it tougher to raise tariffs to 25 percent when the negotiations fail to achieve anything meaningful,” one person familiar with the thinking of some Trump administration China hawks said. “The higher stocks go on ‘China hope,’ the more they have to fall.”

And it remains to be seen who will lead the talks that are supposed to follow the Buenos Aires truce. Recent trade talks with Canada, Mexico, and the European Union have been led by U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, known as a hawk on China. But the talks prior to the Buenos Aires dinner were led by a group headed by Treasury undersecretary David Malpass. It is not yet clear whether the Treasury group will retain its lead role or whether Lighthizer’s office will take over.

The terms of the truce have also come in for criticism. To China hawks, the deal very closely resembles earlier proposals to have China buy more commodities from the U.S. in exchange for the U.S. giving up other demands. This was derided by the hawks as “a plan to make the U.S. into an agricultural and energy colony of a hegemonic China.”

“China has explicitly agreed to import more of exactly those things that it doesn’t care to make itself, now or in the future,” the Financial Times’s Brendan Greeley wrote. He continued:

China imports US products that are hard to make and require skilled workers and years of capital investment: airplanes, cars and industrial machines. It also imports commodities: soyabeans, crude oil, plastic materials. In Buenos Aires, according to the White House, Xi Jinping agreed to increase imports only of commodities. These are the imports that China doesn’t care about, the imports that don’t threaten its plans. The concession costs Xi nothing.

U.S. trade expert Alan Tonelson said that the Buenos Aires truce would only delay the inevitable conflict:

President Trump’s decision to delay tariff hikes or new tariffs on China for 90 days in return for more Chinese imports from America and further talks on core trade barrier and tech issues only delays what should be the inevitable. Since even the most detailed Chinese promises can’t be verified reliably, and since fostering bilateral economic ties has backfired so thoroughly on the US, any President determined to promote US interests will need to seek maximum economic disengagement from China ASAP.

In China, the deal is being heralded as a triumph. Notably, the state-controlled Global Times tabloid emphasized that the deal essentially puts the U.S. and China on an equal footing.

“As two major countries with great influence, China and the United States shoulder important responsibilities in promoting world peace and prosperity, Xi told Trump,” the Global Times reported.

From the perspective of the Global Times, Trump essentially agreed to the Chinese perspective on the relations of the two countries:

Chinese President Xi Jinping and his US counterpart Donald Trump held a “highly successful meeting” here Saturday, reaching important consensus and agreeing not to impose new additional tariffs…

Trump said that he agrees with Xi on his evaluation of US-China relations. US-China relations are very special and important, Trump said, adding that it is in the interest of the two countries as well as the world that the United States and China, both countries of significant influence, maintain a good cooperative relationship.

That’s very different from Trump’s own view of the Buenos Aires truce, which he described as “an incredible deal.” The president described the deal mostly in terms of concessions from China. “China will be opening up. China will be getting rid of tariffs,” he said before boarding Air Force One to return to the U.S.

Xi’s statement about “two major countries with great influence” may have special meaning for a Chinese audience familiar with the works of Confucius, one that does not bode well for the notion of future cooperation between the U.S. and China.

“There cannot two suns in the sky, nor two emperors on earth,” Confucius said, according to the Chinese philosopher Mencius.-------------------Trade Truce Seen as a 'Trap,' 'Disaster' by China Hawks





The trade truce between the U.S. and China delays their economic battle but creates little hope for lasting resolution of the deep divide between the two nations on the future of the global economy, according to many China analysts.

President Donald Trump and China hawks in his administration have frequently criticized prior U.S. presidents for being out-maneuvered and out-smarted by China’s tactic of engaging in endless negotiations and holding out the promise of reform while continuing to carry out its economic predation. The Obama administration spent years in what was known as the Strategic and Economic Dialogue without anything of substance to show for it.

To critics of the Buenos Aires truce, the Trump administration appears to be repeating this mistake.

“The president has fallen into the same trap as Barack Obama, George W. Bush and even Bill Clinton. He will get more platitudes and promises and very few results,” University of Maryland economist Peter Morici told the Wall Street Journal.

One former administration official described the deal as “a total disaster. “We’ve now entered into the Trump version of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue,” the person said.

Dan MiMicco, a steel executive who was part of the Trump transition team, said he was disappointed with the agreement:

Is #Trump making a huge mistake? The devil is in the details! But I’d be lying if I didn’t say at first glance this is very disappointing. https://t.co/DTNR4spVKO — Dan DiMicco (@DanRDimicco) December 2, 2018

Some conservative China critics say that the deal could have been worse. For weeks leading up to the dinner, many feared the U.S. would agree to end or suspend the 10 percent tariffs. From that perspective, the worst case scenario was avoided because the Trump administration only agreed to a pause in escalation.

Not all analysts were as negative about the deal but few believe the U.S. and China were close to resolving their fundamental differences, in large part because China’s global ambitions would be thwarted by a deal that did resolve them.

The Financial Times’ Brendan Greeley wrote:

China and the US aren’t fighting over what China exports now — assembled electronics, toys, socks, furniture. They’re fighting over what China wants to make at home in the future. China has a plan to become self sufficient in electric cars, aerospace, bio-medicine and farming equipment. These things are hard to make. They require decades to figure out, and a well-educated, productive, high-wage workforce. Xi Jinping didn’t compromise on this goal in Argentina. It’s hard to see that he ever will.

“It’s good to see the U.S.-Chinese tariffs war not escalating any further,” Kang Kam-Chan, head of the South Korean trade ministry’s Trade Policy Division, said Sunday, according to the Wall Street Journal. “But the competition for holding hegemony in global industry and trade between the two powers has not changed substantially.”

“The outcome of the Trump/Xi dinner on Saturday represents nothing more than a truce in the escalating trade wars,” former Goldman Sachs partner and ex-chief of the British Broadcasting Corp. (BBC) Gavyn Davies wrote in an op-ed for the Financial Times. “Entrenched problems remain, notably around US concerns about the protection of intellectual property, and the long term direction of Chinese industrial strategy. It is still very difficult to imagine that these gulfs can be bridged without further threats of trade protection from the Trump administration.”

Less than 24 hours after the deal was struck over a dinner capping the Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires, Argentina, cracks in the truce consensus were already apparent.

The U.S. agreed not to raise the tariff on $200 billion of Chinese goods from 10 percent to 25 percent in January, as had been earlier announced, while the two sides renew trade negotiations. But China and the U.S. are already taking very different approaches to describing what was agreed.

According to the White House, the Buenos Aires truce is on a 90-day time line, after which the 10 percent tariff will rise to 25 percent. During that time, the two sides would address China’s forced technology transfer policies and intellectual property theft, the two items at the core of the U.S. complaint about China’s predatory economic practices. The White House also said that China would purchase a “very substantial” amount of farm, energy, and industrial goods in order to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S.

The U.S. made no mention of removing the existing 10 percent tariff.

China’s statements on the agreement, however, made no mention of a 90-day timeline or the possibility of tariffs rising if the deadline passed without progress. In a press briefing, Chinese officials said only that the talks would focus on removing the 10 percent tariffs and Chinese retaliatory tariffs. Chinese officials were also vague about what it might purchase from the U.S. as part of the deal.

China’s statement also said that Trump would visit China and Xi the U.S. The U.S. statement made no mention of bilateral visits by heads of state. Similarly, the official Chinese news agency said the U.S. would continue to welcome Chinese university students while the U.S. statement made no mention of the topic.

This creates the possibility that there is less to the agreement than it seems. Or even that U.S. officials have heard in Chinese statements what they hoped to hear but not what China actually intended. The U.S. has a long history of misinterpreting the statements and intentions. During the Korean War, for example, China believed it had clearly signaled that it would have to intervene militarily if U.S. troops got too close to the Chinese border. Officials from the U.S., however, misinterpreted this signal, leading to armed conflict between the two countries that was only ended by the 1953 armistice.

“Neither side got their maximum demands and it’s not the first time in U.S.-China relations that both sides claim victory,” said Michael Pillsbury, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a defense official under presidents including Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, Bloomberg News reported.

Even within the Trump administration, there is skepticism. Some administration officials have shied away from even describing it as a “deal,” preferring to call it an “announcement,” the Wall Street Journal reported. Some worry that Wall Street’s reaction to the announcement of the truce, which is seen as likely to boost stocks, will encourage the president to soften his stance even further.

“The fear is that Wall Street will applaud this as ‘progress’ and it will make it tougher to raise tariffs to 25 percent when the negotiations fail to achieve anything meaningful,” one person familiar with the thinking of some Trump administration China hawks said. “The higher stocks go on ‘China hope,’ the more they have to fall.”

And it remains to be seen who will lead the talks that are supposed to follow the Buenos Aires truce. Recent trade talks with Canada, Mexico, and the European Union have been led by U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, known as a hawk on China. But the talks prior to the Buenos Aires dinner were led by a group headed by Treasury undersecretary David Malpass. It is not yet clear whether the Treasury group will retain its lead role or whether Lighthizer’s office will take over.

The terms of the truce have also come in for criticism. To China hawks, the deal very closely resembles earlier proposals to have China buy more commodities from the U.S. in exchange for the U.S. giving up other demands. This was derided by the hawks as “a plan to make the U.S. into an agricultural and energy colony of a hegemonic China.”

“China has explicitly agreed to import more of exactly those things that it doesn’t care to make itself, now or in the future,” the Financial Times’s Brendan Greeley wrote. He continued:

China imports US products that are hard to make and require skilled workers and years of capital investment: airplanes, cars and industrial machines. It also imports commodities: soyabeans, crude oil, plastic materials. In Buenos Aires, according to the White House, Xi Jinping agreed to increase imports only of commodities. These are the imports that China doesn’t care about, the imports that don’t threaten its plans. The concession costs Xi nothing.

U.S. trade expert Alan Tonelson said that the Buenos Aires truce would only delay the inevitable conflict:

President Trump’s decision to delay tariff hikes or new tariffs on China for 90 days in return for more Chinese imports from America and further talks on core trade barrier and tech issues only delays what should be the inevitable. Since even the most detailed Chinese promises can’t be verified reliably, and since fostering bilateral economic ties has backfired so thoroughly on the US, any President determined to promote US interests will need to seek maximum economic disengagement from China ASAP.

In China, the deal is being heralded as a triumph. Notably, the state-controlled Global Times tabloid emphasized that the deal essentially puts the U.S. and China on an equal footing.

“As two major countries with great influence, China and the United States shoulder important responsibilities in promoting world peace and prosperity, Xi told Trump,” the Global Times reported.

From the perspective of the Global Times, Trump essentially agreed to the Chinese perspective on the relations of the two countries:

Chinese President Xi Jinping and his US counterpart Donald Trump held a “highly successful meeting” here Saturday, reaching important consensus and agreeing not to impose new additional tariffs…

Trump said that he agrees with Xi on his evaluation of US-China relations. US-China relations are very special and important, Trump said, adding that it is in the interest of the two countries as well as the world that the United States and China, both countries of significant influence, maintain a good cooperative relationship.

That’s very different from Trump’s own view of the Buenos Aires truce, which he described as “an incredible deal.” The president described the deal mostly in terms of concessions from China. “China will be opening up. China will be getting rid of tariffs,” he said before boarding Air Force One to return to the U.S.

Xi’s statement about “two major countries with great influence” may have special meaning for a Chinese audience familiar with the works of Confucius, one that does not bode well for the notion of future cooperation between the U.S. and China.

“There cannot two suns in the sky, nor two emperors on earth,” Confucius said, according to the Chinese philosopher Mencius.-------------------Brazilian Lawmakers Push Law Recognizing Right to Own Guns





Brazilian lawmakers are gearing up to push gun reforms that will recognize citizens’ right to own guns for self-defense.

The goal of peeling back gun control took center stage when it became evident that Jair Bolsonaro would win Brazil’s presidential election. Bolsonaro, a former Army Captain who ran as a law and order candidate, is now president-elect.

On October 19, Bloomberg quoted Bolsonaro defending his support of private firearm ownership, saying, “Why have I always defended the ownership of firearms? It’s so that you, upstanding citizens, with a few requirements, can have a weapon inside your house or your farm. If some guy breaks down the door to your house, knocks down the gate of your farm, you have the right to react.”

In anticipation of Bolsonaro’s win, a bill was crafted to ease taxes on firearms and lower the legal purchase age from 25 to 21. Moreover, the bill would, as a matter of law, recognize Brazilians’ “right to own and bear firearms for legitimate self-defense and the protection of personal property.”

On December 1, the New York Times reported that Brazilians are now flocking for firearms training in preparation for broader access to firearms for self-defense.

Current law puts very stringent limitations on firearm purchases, including numerous hoops through which a would-be gun buyer must jump. Moreover, current law forbids Brazilian citizens from carrying guns for self-defense.

The result of these gun controls? Nearly 200 people a day were killed in Brazil during 2017.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.-------------------Brazilian Lawmakers Push Law Recognizing Right to Own Guns





Brazilian lawmakers are gearing up to push gun reforms that will recognize citizens’ right to own guns for self-defense.

The goal of peeling back gun control took center stage when it became evident that Jair Bolsonaro would win Brazil’s presidential election. Bolsonaro, a former Army Captain who ran as a law and order candidate, is now president-elect.

On October 19, Bloomberg quoted Bolsonaro defending his support of private firearm ownership, saying, “Why have I always defended the ownership of firearms? It’s so that you, upstanding citizens, with a few requirements, can have a weapon inside your house or your farm. If some guy breaks down the door to your house, knocks down the gate of your farm, you have the right to react.”

In anticipation of Bolsonaro’s win, a bill was crafted to ease taxes on firearms and lower the legal purchase age from 25 to 21. Moreover, the bill would, as a matter of law, recognize Brazilians’ “right to own and bear firearms for legitimate self-defense and the protection of personal property.”

On December 1, the New York Times reported that Brazilians are now flocking for firearms training in preparation for broader access to firearms for self-defense.

Current law puts very stringent limitations on firearm purchases, including numerous hoops through which a would-be gun buyer must jump. Moreover, current law forbids Brazilian citizens from carrying guns for self-defense.

The result of these gun controls? Nearly 200 people a day were killed in Brazil during 2017.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.-------------------School Staff Use Yardstick to Open Bathroom Stall on Transgender Teen





A 17-year-old boy living as a transgender female claimed he caught on video the moment several school administrators forced open the door to his bathroom stall while he was still inside, but school administrators say the video does not tell the whole story.

The videos, which racked up more than 800,000 views on Facebook, shows the student sitting in a bathroom stall on Wednesday at Osseo Senior High School in Minnesota with the door locked while officials demanded he come out of the stall.

A female teacher then took out an item which looked like a yardstick to reach over the stall’s divider and unlock the sliding bolt from inside the stall. A male police officer and several male school administrators were also at the scene.

“I’m using the bathroom right now and they just violated me,” the student says in the video.

A second video showed school officials ordering the student to leave school property while he points out several school administrators who “violated” him.

“This is the dude that violated me,” he said while naming the school administrators.

But the principal at the high school says there is more to the story than the student’s video, and denied that any student had been prohibited from using a bathroom.

“I am aware of social media posts that significantly misrepresent an incident that occurred at school on Nov. 28. It’s important for you to know that no students were barred or banned from using any bathroom at Osseo Senior High,” Principal Michael Lehan said in a statement.

Lehan added that school administrators only enter a restroom stall when there are concerns for students’ safety or health, or if there is suspected illegal activity taking place.

“I sincerely wish I could say more, but for data privacy reasons, I cannot provide details about a situation involving a specific student,” he said.-------------------School Staff Use Yardstick to Open Bathroom Stall on Transgender Teen





A 17-year-old boy living as a transgender female claimed he caught on video the moment several school administrators forced open the door to his bathroom stall while he was still inside, but school administrators say the video does not tell the whole story.

The videos, which racked up more than 800,000 views on Facebook, shows the student sitting in a bathroom stall on Wednesday at Osseo Senior High School in Minnesota with the door locked while officials demanded he come out of the stall.

A female teacher then took out an item which looked like a yardstick to reach over the stall’s divider and unlock the sliding bolt from inside the stall. A male police officer and several male school administrators were also at the scene.

“I’m using the bathroom right now and they just violated me,” the student says in the video.

A second video showed school officials ordering the student to leave school property while he points out several school administrators who “violated” him.

“This is the dude that violated me,” he said while naming the school administrators.

But the principal at the high school says there is more to the story than the student’s video, and denied that any student had been prohibited from using a bathroom.

“I am aware of social media posts that significantly misrepresent an incident that occurred at school on Nov. 28. It’s important for you to know that no students were barred or banned from using any bathroom at Osseo Senior High,” Principal Michael Lehan said in a statement.

Lehan added that school administrators only enter a restroom stall when there are concerns for students’ safety or health, or if there is suspected illegal activity taking place.

“I sincerely wish I could say more, but for data privacy reasons, I cannot provide details about a situation involving a specific student,” he said.-------------------Kidnapping Suspect Opens Fire on Police, Takes Fatal Head Shot





A kidnapping suspect with multiple warrants opened fire on Ogden, Utah, police Friday and was quickly killed with a head shot.

The Salt Lake Tribune reports that the suspect, 37-year-old Richard Galvan, “held a woman he had previously dated hostage for much of the day before abandoning her minutes before his fatal confrontation with police.”

Ogden police Chief Randy Watt said the woman awoke to Galvan in her home and that he shifted between “homicidal and suicidal” talk while holding her. Later in the day he forced her to drive him to the downtown area, where he got out of the car and walked away from the woman.

The woman sped off, found an officer, told him of the kidnapping and warned him that Galvan was armed in the downtown area.

Police were able to locate Galvan on surveillance cameras and when an officer approached, Galvin turned away then quickly spun around and opened fire. Galvan missed and was immediately shot in the head, thereafter collapsing lifelessly to the ground.

After the incident, Ogden police explained Galvan was carrying a .45 caliber pistol, and that he told his kidnap victim he had the gun in order to protect himself from police.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.-------------------Kidnapping Suspect Opens Fire on Police, Takes Fatal Head Shot





A kidnapping suspect with multiple warrants opened fire on Ogden, Utah, police Friday and was quickly killed with a head shot.

The Salt Lake Tribune reports that the suspect, 37-year-old Richard Galvan, “held a woman he had previously dated hostage for much of the day before abandoning her minutes before his fatal confrontation with police.”

Ogden police Chief Randy Watt said the woman awoke to Galvan in her home and that he shifted between “homicidal and suicidal” talk while holding her. Later in the day he forced her to drive him to the downtown area, where he got out of the car and walked away from the woman.

The woman sped off, found an officer, told him of the kidnapping and warned him that Galvan was armed in the downtown area.

Police were able to locate Galvan on surveillance cameras and when an officer approached, Galvin turned away then quickly spun around and opened fire. Galvan missed and was immediately shot in the head, thereafter collapsing lifelessly to the ground.

After the incident, Ogden police explained Galvan was carrying a .45 caliber pistol, and that he told his kidnap victim he had the gun in order to protect himself from police.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.-------------------Anti-Mass Migration Populist VOX Party Makes Breakthrough in Spain





Right-wing populist VOX has entered a Spanish regional parliament for the first time after gaining 11 per cent of the vote in Andalusia on Sunday, according to exit polls.

VOX has won 12 seats in Spain’s most populous region, according to preliminary results where around 99 per cent of votes have been counted, Reuters reports.

In less than three years, VOX has risen from one percent to 11 percent and is now the third-largest party in the Andalusian province of Almería.

The results in Andalusia, normally a left-wing stronghold where 20 percent of the country’s population lives, represent a first major gain for right-wing populism in Spain which is currently led by Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez.

EuropeElects reports that “The electoral defeat of the centre-left PSOE (S&D) in today’s regional election in Andalusia reflects the downward trend of almost all centre-left, social democratic and socialist parties in #Europe.”

Socialists have governed the southern region since the end of Franco’s rule in 1975, with the Socialists falling short of a majority, gaining only 33 seats in the 109 seat chamber.

Of the other parties, the left-wing Podemos is estimated to have only 17 seats, the somewhat right-leaning Ciudadanos 21, and the nominally conservative People’s Party 26.

This means that the left could lose control of the regional parliament without enough allied parties, with Ciudadanos and the People’s Party able to form a union with the backing of VOX and others to gain a functioning majority.

VOX voters are said to have come from both the left and the right, disenfranchised by establishment politics, with one voter telling AFP that Spain was “getting worse” under the Socialists.

Spain: Up until today, the rise of right-wing parties in Europe had not affected Spain. This has changed today with the Andalusian regional election. VOX (ECR) rises from 1% to 10% within three years, enters a regional parliament for the first time. #EleccionesAndalucia #Spain pic.twitter.com/ch2jsokz2o — Europe Elects (@EuropeElects) December 2, 2018

VOX was founded in 2013 as an offshoot of the conservative People’s Party by José Antonio Ortega Lara, and the party president is Santiago Abascal (pictured).

Describing itself as Christian democratic, it is pro-life, critical of multiculturalism, and in favour of strong national borders, arguing — like U.S. President Donald Trump — that “a nation without borders is not a nation”.

Abascal, like right-wing populist Matteo Salvini, has accused NGOs of “acting like taxis,” trafficking third-world migrants to Europe, with Spain becoming a focal point for migrant arrivals from Africa in recent months.

The party’s main objective, it states, is to put “Spaniards First” — another nod to President Trump and his America First philosophy — with party general secretary Ortega Smith telling a rally in October: “Together we will make Spain great again!”

REPORT: Soros Held ‘Secret Meeting’ with Spain’s Socialist, Pro-Mass Migration Leader https://t.co/iWQbGhjj5Y — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 1, 2018-------------------Anti-Mass Migration Populist VOX Party Makes Breakthrough in Spain





Right-wing populist VOX has entered a Spanish regional parliament for the first time after gaining 11 per cent of the vote in Andalusia on Sunday, according to exit polls.

VOX has won 12 seats in Spain’s most populous region, according to preliminary results where around 99 per cent of votes have been counted, Reuters reports.

In less than three years, VOX has risen from one percent to 11 percent and is now the third-largest party in the Andalusian province of Almería.

The results in Andalusia, normally a left-wing stronghold where 20 percent of the country’s population lives, represent a first major gain for right-wing populism in Spain which is currently led by Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez.

EuropeElects reports that “The electoral defeat of the centre-left PSOE (S&D) in today’s regional election in Andalusia reflects the downward trend of almost all centre-left, social democratic and socialist parties in #Europe.”

Socialists have governed the southern region since the end of Franco’s rule in 1975, with the Socialists falling short of a majority, gaining only 33 seats in the 109 seat chamber.

Of the other parties, the left-wing Podemos is estimated to have only 17 seats, the somewhat right-leaning Ciudadanos 21, and the nominally conservative People’s Party 26.

This means that the left could lose control of the regional parliament without enough allied parties, with Ciudadanos and the People’s Party able to form a union with the backing of VOX and others to gain a functioning majority.

VOX voters are said to have come from both the left and the right, disenfranchised by establishment politics, with one voter telling AFP that Spain was “getting worse” under the Socialists.

Spain: Up until today, the rise of right-wing parties in Europe had not affected Spain. This has changed today with the Andalusian regional election. VOX (ECR) rises from 1% to 10% within three years, enters a regional parliament for the first time. #EleccionesAndalucia #Spain pic.twitter.com/ch2jsokz2o — Europe Elects (@EuropeElects) December 2, 2018

VOX was founded in 2013 as an offshoot of the conservative People’s Party by José Antonio Ortega Lara, and the party president is Santiago Abascal (pictured).

Describing itself as Christian democratic, it is pro-life, critical of multiculturalism, and in favour of strong national borders, arguing — like U.S. President Donald Trump — that “a nation without borders is not a nation”.

Abascal, like right-wing populist Matteo Salvini, has accused NGOs of “acting like taxis,” trafficking third-world migrants to Europe, with Spain becoming a focal point for migrant arrivals from Africa in recent months.

The party’s main objective, it states, is to put “Spaniards First” — another nod to President Trump and his America First philosophy — with party general secretary Ortega Smith telling a rally in October: “Together we will make Spain great again!”

REPORT: Soros Held ‘Secret Meeting’ with Spain’s Socialist, Pro-Mass Migration Leader https://t.co/iWQbGhjj5Y — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) July 1, 2018-------------------President Trump and First Lady Melania Wish Jews a Happy Hanukkah





President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump wished Jews a “Happy Hanukkah” on Sunday, just before families and communities gathered to light the first candle of the eight-night holiday.

This week, Jews around the world will celebrate the miracles of Hanukkah. @FLOTUS Melania and I send our very best wishes for a blessed and Happy Hanukkah! https://t.co/LrnGcc86w4 pic.twitter.com/Kdjeyvkzmb — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 2, 2018

Hannukah (alternatively spelled “Chanukah,” a transliteration of the Hebrew “חָנֻכָּה”) celebrates the re-dedication of the Holy Temple in Jerusalem in the 2nd century B.C., after the Jews, led by the Maccabees, defeated the occupying army of the Seleucid Greeks and cleansed the sanctuary of pagan worship. Jewish tradition holds that when the Jews searched the Temple for oil to light the menorah, a sacred candelabra, they only found enough to last one day, but it lasted for eight.

Jews observe the holiday by lighting candles (or oil lamps) on a special menorah — also called a “Chanukiah” — each night, adding a new light in ascending in order each night until the eighth night, when every light is ablaze.

The holiday is associated with various other traditions as well. Many Jews eat delicacies fried in olive oil, including potato pancakes (“latkes”) or special jelly doughnuts (“sufganiot”). Children gamble for low stakes with special four-sided tops called “dreidels,” with each side marked with a Hebrew letter standing for the words in the phrase, “A great miracle happened there.” (In Israel, the phrase reads slightly differently: “A great miracle happened here.”)

Friends and relatives often exchange gifts — typically “gelt,” small amounts of money or chocolate coins. (In the U.S., people tend to give larger gifts for Hanukkah, owing largely to the influence of the Christmas holiday.)

Many Jews believe that it is essential to publicize the miracle of Hanukkah, and so many communities hold public menorah lightings. Doing so is seen partly as a symbol of communal survival in the face of centuries of persecution.

In his greeting, President Trump made special mention of the recent mass shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh:

Unfortunately, Jews today continue to face many different forms of violence, hatred, and bigotry around the globe. We remember all those from the Tree of Life—Or L’Simcha Congregation—whose lives were tragically taken in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, this past October. As one Nation, we pledge our continued love and support for the victims, their families, and the community, and we pray that the victims’ families find some measure of peace and comfort during this holiday season.

The president and first lady will welcome guests to the White House for a Hanukkah party on Tuesday, Dec. 11.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.-------------------President Trump and First Lady Melania Wish Jews a Happy Hanukkah





President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump wished Jews a “Happy Hanukkah” on Sunday, just before families and communities gathered to light the first candle of the eight-night holiday.

This week, Jews around the world will celebrate the miracles of Hanukkah. @FLOTUS Melania and I send our very best wishes for a blessed and Happy Hanukkah! https://t.co/LrnGcc86w4 pic.twitter.com/Kdjeyvkzmb — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 2, 2018

Hannukah (alternatively spelled “Chanukah,” a transliteration of the Hebrew “חָנֻכָּה”) celebrates the re-dedication of the Holy Temple in Jerusalem in the 2nd century B.C., after the Jews, led by the Maccabees, defeated the occupying army of the Seleucid Greeks and cleansed the sanctuary of pagan worship. Jewish tradition holds that when the Jews searched the Temple for oil to light the menorah, a sacred candelabra, they only found enough to last one day, but it lasted for eight.

Jews observe the holiday by lighting candles (or oil lamps) on a special menorah — also called a “Chanukiah” — each night, adding a new light in ascending in order each night until the eighth night, when every light is ablaze.

The holiday is associated with various other traditions as well. Many Jews eat delicacies fried in olive oil, including potato pancakes (“latkes”) or special jelly doughnuts (“sufganiot”). Children gamble for low stakes with special four-sided tops called “dreidels,” with each side marked with a Hebrew letter standing for the words in the phrase, “A great miracle happened there.” (In Israel, the phrase reads slightly differently: “A great miracle happened here.”)

Friends and relatives often exchange gifts — typically “gelt,” small amounts of money or chocolate coins. (In the U.S., people tend to give larger gifts for Hanukkah, owing largely to the influence of the Christmas holiday.)

Many Jews believe that it is essential to publicize the miracle of Hanukkah, and so many communities hold public menorah lightings. Doing so is seen partly as a symbol of communal survival in the face of centuries of persecution.

In his greeting, President Trump made special mention of the recent mass shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh:

Unfortunately, Jews today continue to face many different forms of violence, hatred, and bigotry around the globe. We remember all those from the Tree of Life—Or L’Simcha Congregation—whose lives were tragically taken in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, this past October. As one Nation, we pledge our continued love and support for the victims, their families, and the community, and we pray that the victims’ families find some measure of peace and comfort during this holiday season.

The president and first lady will welcome guests to the White House for a Hanukkah party on Tuesday, Dec. 11.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.-------------------Andrea Mitchell: Trump Is ‘Correct’ It’s Not Illegal for Him to Do Business With Russia





Sunday on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” network chief foreign affairs correspondent Andrea Mitchell said President Donald Trump’s assertion that his company doing business with Russia is not illegal was “correct.”

Mitchell said, “Well, that’s putting more pressure on President Trump and also, you know, weakening Trump. I mean, Putin is using every lever that he has. And Trump had put pressure on him over Ukraine. So he is, through Peskov, his right-hand person, saying, “Yeah, we’ve got those emails,” and showing the emails of Michael Cohen. Look, this changes the timeline. It puts this front and center in the campaign at the very time when the Russians were hacking, beginning to hack the Democratic accounts and, you know, the accounts of the campaign manager of Hillary Clinton.

She added, “We don’t have the final connection. And the president’s correct. It’s not illegal for an international businessman to be doing the business. The conflicts of interest are profound. It’s not illegal yet. But we do know that the CFO of the Trump Organization is also a cooperating witness. And the fact that they put, in that criminal information, that Cohen had been talking to the family members. That’s a small universe. That’s Don Jr., Eric, Ivanka, Jared. So it now brings the family into it. And of course, the family, they can be indicted, if the president, arguably, cannot.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Andrea Mitchell: Trump Is ‘Correct’ It’s Not Illegal for Him to Do Business With Russia





Sunday on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” network chief foreign affairs correspondent Andrea Mitchell said President Donald Trump’s assertion that his company doing business with Russia is not illegal was “correct.”

Mitchell said, “Well, that’s putting more pressure on President Trump and also, you know, weakening Trump. I mean, Putin is using every lever that he has. And Trump had put pressure on him over Ukraine. So he is, through Peskov, his right-hand person, saying, “Yeah, we’ve got those emails,” and showing the emails of Michael Cohen. Look, this changes the timeline. It puts this front and center in the campaign at the very time when the Russians were hacking, beginning to hack the Democratic accounts and, you know, the accounts of the campaign manager of Hillary Clinton.

She added, “We don’t have the final connection. And the president’s correct. It’s not illegal for an international businessman to be doing the business. The conflicts of interest are profound. It’s not illegal yet. But we do know that the CFO of the Trump Organization is also a cooperating witness. And the fact that they put, in that criminal information, that Cohen had been talking to the family members. That’s a small universe. That’s Don Jr., Eric, Ivanka, Jared. So it now brings the family into it. And of course, the family, they can be indicted, if the president, arguably, cannot.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Former Nurse Gets 2 Years in Prison for Lying About Terminal Cancer





A former Ohio nurse will spend the next two years of her life behind bars after she lied to friends and colleagues about her diagnosis of terminal lung cancer.

A judge sentenced Tawni Fuller, who used to work as a nurse anesthetist at Ohio State University, to two years in prison and three years’ probation for the scheme where she received paid leave and thousands of dollars in gifts, the Columbus Dispatch reported.

Fuller, who pleaded guilty in October to charges of theft and telecommunications fraud, will also have to pay $47,000 to Ohio State and other victims affected by her scam.

“It’s just like nothing I’ve ever heard in all the years I’ve been doing this,” Delaware County Common Pleas Judge Everett Krueger reportedly told the courtroom at Fuller’s sentencing.

“It’s almost evil what I heard today. It’s just plain evil,” he added.

Fuller’s fabricated diagnosis unraveled in August 2016, after she told her colleagues and friends she had a “miraculous recovery” which “boggled” her physicians, according to a series of text messages she wrote at the time.

She would also wear a headscarf and use a cane or walker when she appeared in front of her co-workers, according to the Dispatch.

“I was suffering — so stuck and lost that I couldn’t get out,” the 34-year-old said in an apology at her sentencing. “I never wanted to hurt any of you.”

But many of Fuller’s victims who testified in court did not buy her apology.

“Only a cruel, narcissistic person could watch me go through such pain and suffering,” Tina Dalzell said. “I am offended and disgusted that she mocked cancer patients.”

Heather Gschnell, another victim, called Fuller a “cunning mastermind.”

Fuller’s tale is not the only instance of a nurse gone bad.

A 31-year-old registered nurse was accused of second-degree assault in May for intentionally infecting her patients with the Hepatitis C virus, and in November 2017, several nurses were caught on camera laughing at a World War II veteran while he lay dying in bed.-------------------Former Nurse Gets 2 Years in Prison for Lying About Terminal Cancer





A former Ohio nurse will spend the next two years of her life behind bars after she lied to friends and colleagues about her diagnosis of terminal lung cancer.

A judge sentenced Tawni Fuller, who used to work as a nurse anesthetist at Ohio State University, to two years in prison and three years’ probation for the scheme where she received paid leave and thousands of dollars in gifts, the Columbus Dispatch reported.

Fuller, who pleaded guilty in October to charges of theft and telecommunications fraud, will also have to pay $47,000 to Ohio State and other victims affected by her scam.

“It’s just like nothing I’ve ever heard in all the years I’ve been doing this,” Delaware County Common Pleas Judge Everett Krueger reportedly told the courtroom at Fuller’s sentencing.

“It’s almost evil what I heard today. It’s just plain evil,” he added.

Fuller’s fabricated diagnosis unraveled in August 2016, after she told her colleagues and friends she had a “miraculous recovery” which “boggled” her physicians, according to a series of text messages she wrote at the time.

She would also wear a headscarf and use a cane or walker when she appeared in front of her co-workers, according to the Dispatch.

“I was suffering — so stuck and lost that I couldn’t get out,” the 34-year-old said in an apology at her sentencing. “I never wanted to hurt any of you.”

But many of Fuller’s victims who testified in court did not buy her apology.

“Only a cruel, narcissistic person could watch me go through such pain and suffering,” Tina Dalzell said. “I am offended and disgusted that she mocked cancer patients.”

Heather Gschnell, another victim, called Fuller a “cunning mastermind.”

Fuller’s tale is not the only instance of a nurse gone bad.

A 31-year-old registered nurse was accused of second-degree assault in May for intentionally infecting her patients with the Hepatitis C virus, and in November 2017, several nurses were caught on camera laughing at a World War II veteran while he lay dying in bed.-------------------Bruce Springsteen: Trump will Win in 2020 Because Democrats Have No ‘Obvious, Effective’ Candidate





Rock legend Bruce Springsteen said in a recent interview that he thinks President Donald Trump can win a second term, saying that Democrats have no “obvious, effective” candidate to beat him in 2020.

“I don’t see anyone out there at the moment… the man who can beat Trump, or the woman who can beat Trump,” Bruce Springsteen said in an interview with The Sudnay Times.

“You need someone who can speak some of the same language [as Trump] … and the Democrats don’t have an obvious, effective presidential candidate,” he said.



Springsteen also expressed some displeasure with the results of the 2018 midterm elections, saying, “Yeah, it was nice to get the House back, but I’d like to have seen a much more full-throated [rejection] of the past two years.”

The Grammy-winner also defended Trump supporters, saying, “I think that there are a lot of reasons people became Trump voters.”

Springsteen told The Times:

You had severe blows to working people in the 1970s and 1980s as all the steel mills shut down. Then you had an explosion of information technology. These are life-changing, upsetting occurrences. You can find yourself in a country that you may not feel part of, or you feel that your [concerns are] being dismissed. So [you’ve had] an enormous amount of insecurity and instability. Add to that, someone comes in and plays on your racial anxieties, and blames an enormous amount of this on the ‘other’ from the southern side of the border, and you’re going to have an audience for those views. I basically think that [the problem] is the incredibly rapid pace of change that’s occurred in the United States that’s gone unaddressed by both administrations, Democrat and Republican.

However, Springsteen also expressed skepticism that tariffs might not work to get jobs back into the United States.

The “Born to Run” singer, who campaigned for Barack Obama, has not hesitated to rip President Trump.

In an interview published this week, Springsteen accused President Trump of committing a “crime against humanity” by “dividing” Americans.

Referencing Trump’s rhetoric, the rock star said, “It’s an awful, awful message to send out into the world if you’re in that job and in that position. It’s just an ugly, awful message. You are intentionally trying to disenfranchise a large portion of Americans. I mean, you are simply…that’s unforgivable.”

Earlier this year, the 69-year-old said that America was undergoing a “battle for the soul” of America.

“Folks trying to normalize hate, calling upon the most divisive, ugliest ghosts of our past. I hope we’re just going through a terrible chapter in the battle for the soul of our nation,” he said during a Broadway show.-------------------Bruce Springsteen: Trump will Win in 2020 Because Democrats Have No ‘Obvious, Effective’ Candidate





Rock legend Bruce Springsteen said in a recent interview that he thinks President Donald Trump can win a second term, saying that Democrats have no “obvious, effective” candidate to beat him in 2020.

“I don’t see anyone out there at the moment… the man who can beat Trump, or the woman who can beat Trump,” Bruce Springsteen said in an interview with The Sudnay Times.

“You need someone who can speak some of the same language [as Trump] … and the Democrats don’t have an obvious, effective presidential candidate,” he said.



Springsteen also expressed some displeasure with the results of the 2018 midterm elections, saying, “Yeah, it was nice to get the House back, but I’d like to have seen a much more full-throated [rejection] of the past two years.”

The Grammy-winner also defended Trump supporters, saying, “I think that there are a lot of reasons people became Trump voters.”

Springsteen told The Times:

You had severe blows to working people in the 1970s and 1980s as all the steel mills shut down. Then you had an explosion of information technology. These are life-changing, upsetting occurrences. You can find yourself in a country that you may not feel part of, or you feel that your [concerns are] being dismissed. So [you’ve had] an enormous amount of insecurity and instability. Add to that, someone comes in and plays on your racial anxieties, and blames an enormous amount of this on the ‘other’ from the southern side of the border, and you’re going to have an audience for those views. I basically think that [the problem] is the incredibly rapid pace of change that’s occurred in the United States that’s gone unaddressed by both administrations, Democrat and Republican.

However, Springsteen also expressed skepticism that tariffs might not work to get jobs back into the United States.

The “Born to Run” singer, who campaigned for Barack Obama, has not hesitated to rip President Trump.

In an interview published this week, Springsteen accused President Trump of committing a “crime against humanity” by “dividing” Americans.

Referencing Trump’s rhetoric, the rock star said, “It’s an awful, awful message to send out into the world if you’re in that job and in that position. It’s just an ugly, awful message. You are intentionally trying to disenfranchise a large portion of Americans. I mean, you are simply…that’s unforgivable.”

Earlier this year, the 69-year-old said that America was undergoing a “battle for the soul” of America.

“Folks trying to normalize hate, calling upon the most divisive, ugliest ghosts of our past. I hope we’re just going through a terrible chapter in the battle for the soul of our nation,” he said during a Broadway show.-------------------GOP Sen. Blunt: ‘I Am Concerned’ About Trump’s Trade War





On this weekend’s broadcast of “Fox News Sunday,” Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO) said President Donald Trump’s trade policies are making him “concerned.”

Blunt said, “People like me who’ve really been concerned about the president’s stated trade policy can take some encouragement about what happened in the last couple of days. The signing of the U.S.-Canada-Mexico trade agreement, that’s a big step that six months ago or even just a few weeks ago we were concerned we would not be making that kind of progress.”

He continued, “And on the Chinese front you are exactly right, but we need more specifics here. The ag products that come from my state that come from the middle of the country, I think the soybean exports to China have gone to virtually zero from about one out of every three rows of Missouri soybeans were being exported to China. So whether it’s those kinds of crops or pork or beef or chicken, we need to see some real specific figures here. This has hurt a lot of Missouri farm families and farm families all over the country, but the president’s goal to get China in a better and fairer place on trade is the right goal.”

On trade poly consequences, Blunt added, “I am concerned about that. The president knows that. He’s been very open to talking with me about it, but I think it’s hard to win a trade war.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------GOP Sen. Blunt: ‘I Am Concerned’ About Trump’s Trade War





On this weekend’s broadcast of “Fox News Sunday,” Sen. Roy Blunt (R-MO) said President Donald Trump’s trade policies are making him “concerned.”

Blunt said, “People like me who’ve really been concerned about the president’s stated trade policy can take some encouragement about what happened in the last couple of days. The signing of the U.S.-Canada-Mexico trade agreement, that’s a big step that six months ago or even just a few weeks ago we were concerned we would not be making that kind of progress.”

He continued, “And on the Chinese front you are exactly right, but we need more specifics here. The ag products that come from my state that come from the middle of the country, I think the soybean exports to China have gone to virtually zero from about one out of every three rows of Missouri soybeans were being exported to China. So whether it’s those kinds of crops or pork or beef or chicken, we need to see some real specific figures here. This has hurt a lot of Missouri farm families and farm families all over the country, but the president’s goal to get China in a better and fairer place on trade is the right goal.”

On trade poly consequences, Blunt added, “I am concerned about that. The president knows that. He’s been very open to talking with me about it, but I think it’s hard to win a trade war.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Al Sharpton Sells Life Story Rights to His Charity for $531,000





The Rev. Al Sharpton sold his rights to his life story for a price of more than a half a million dollars— to a charity he owns.

The National Action Network (NAN)— the organization which Sharpton founded in 1991— agreed to fork over $531,000 to the left-wing preacher for Sharpton’s “life story rights for a 10-year period,” according to NAN’s tax filings obtained by the New York Post.

Sharpton also serves as president of NAN, which means he will be the one receiving the cash on behalf of the organization. But the document does not state when the organization would receive the money.

The deal would already amount to more than the $244,661 salary he received from the organization in 2017.

The left-wing activist said the idea came from two members of NAN’s board whom he did not identify, claiming they said the sale would create revenue for the organization after he plans to step down in another year.

“This way they make a profit from the beginning and all of the revenues,” Sharpton said.

But Sharpton never specified when the organization would receive the influx of cash.

“What does that have to do with anything?” Sharpton told the Post.

Sharpton added that he had other ways of increasing revenue for the non-profit, including several movie contracts and videos of himself with celebrities such as Michael Jackson.

“You’ve got real property here. You’re not talking about just me as an activist. These are non-related NAN things that are the saleable items,” he said.

Legal experts say the non-profit’s actions are concerning because the organization is conducting business with its president.

“When I see this kind of thing, it just makes me roll my eyes because there’s so much potential for funny business,” said Linda Sugin, a Fordham University Law School professor and associate dean.

Sugin added that the organization’s independence is questionable because of Sharpton’s “overall influence.”

“In this case, it’s really difficult because of his role in the organization and just because of his overall influence,” she said.

Another legal expert, former IRS official Marcus Owens, said the organization could be violating IRS rules on excess benefits and could be jeopardizing its tax-exempt status.

The National Action Network, which is based in New York City’s Harlem neighborhood, raked in $6.3 million in 2017, and $5.8 million in 2018.

The cash-flush nonprofit also plays a considerable role in politics, especially after House Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) praised Sharpton’s organization for “saving America” and credited it for the Democratic gains in the House of Representatives during the 2018 midterms.-------------------Al Sharpton Sells Life Story Rights to His Charity for $531,000





The Rev. Al Sharpton sold his rights to his life story for a price of more than a half a million dollars— to a charity he owns.

The National Action Network (NAN)— the organization which Sharpton founded in 1991— agreed to fork over $531,000 to the left-wing preacher for Sharpton’s “life story rights for a 10-year period,” according to NAN’s tax filings obtained by the New York Post.

Sharpton also serves as president of NAN, which means he will be the one receiving the cash on behalf of the organization. But the document does not state when the organization would receive the money.

The deal would already amount to more than the $244,661 salary he received from the organization in 2017.

The left-wing activist said the idea came from two members of NAN’s board whom he did not identify, claiming they said the sale would create revenue for the organization after he plans to step down in another year.

“This way they make a profit from the beginning and all of the revenues,” Sharpton said.

But Sharpton never specified when the organization would receive the influx of cash.

“What does that have to do with anything?” Sharpton told the Post.

Sharpton added that he had other ways of increasing revenue for the non-profit, including several movie contracts and videos of himself with celebrities such as Michael Jackson.

“You’ve got real property here. You’re not talking about just me as an activist. These are non-related NAN things that are the saleable items,” he said.

Legal experts say the non-profit’s actions are concerning because the organization is conducting business with its president.

“When I see this kind of thing, it just makes me roll my eyes because there’s so much potential for funny business,” said Linda Sugin, a Fordham University Law School professor and associate dean.

Sugin added that the organization’s independence is questionable because of Sharpton’s “overall influence.”

“In this case, it’s really difficult because of his role in the organization and just because of his overall influence,” she said.

Another legal expert, former IRS official Marcus Owens, said the organization could be violating IRS rules on excess benefits and could be jeopardizing its tax-exempt status.

The National Action Network, which is based in New York City’s Harlem neighborhood, raked in $6.3 million in 2017, and $5.8 million in 2018.

The cash-flush nonprofit also plays a considerable role in politics, especially after House Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) praised Sharpton’s organization for “saving America” and credited it for the Democratic gains in the House of Representatives during the 2018 midterms.-------------------Roger Stone: Never Talked to Assange About Emails, Mueller About Probe, Trump About Pardons





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” political consultant Roger Stone said he had no discussions with Wikileaks founder Julian Assange about the emails released during the 2016 presidential campaign of Donald Trump.

He also said has not spoken to special counsel Robert Mueller about his Russia investigation and insisted he has had no discussions with President Donald Trump about pardons.

Partial transcript as follows:

STEPHANOPOULOS: Roger Stone is here with us right now, welcome to “This Week”. It does appear that – that Robert Mueller is developing a case that you are a key part of this whole Russia investigation. Russia funnels the hacked emails to WikiLeaks, you’re the conduit between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign. Are you still confident you won’t be indicted?

STONE: Well none of that is true, of course, and there’s no evidence to support that supposition. It is now two years in, $30 million. I think few Americans could withstand the kind of legal proctological examination that Mr. Mueller has put me under. According to the New York Times, I was under surveillance by the Obama administration in 2016. They wrote that on January 20, 2017. And today there is still no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion between the Russian state and the Trump campaign involving WikiLeaks or not involving WikiLeaks.

STEPHANOPOULOS: You say no evidence, but I want to just put up — we know that Mueller has talked to about a dozen of your associates. We know he’s asked President Trump about your contacts. And we want to share some of the evidence that has just come out and then have you respond to it.

It’s July 25, 2016, email from you to Jerome Corsi where you say “get to Assange at the Ecuadorian embassy in London and get the pending WikiLeaks email.” You have another July 31st email to Corsi where you talk about a British man named Ted Malloch. You say “Malloch,” you tell him “should go see Assange.”

Corsi emails back to you on August 2, “word is our friend in the embassy,” that must be Assange, “plans two more dumps, one shortly after I’m back, second in October, impact planned to be very damaging.”

You had another email to another associate of yours, Sam Nunberg, on August 4, “I dined with my new pal, Julian Assange, last night.”

And then August 8, you actually said this to a group of Republicans down in Florida.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STONE: I actually have a — communicated with Assange. I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

STEPHANOPOULOS: But now you say you never communicated with Assange at all despite all of that documentary…

STONE: Well, first of all, let’s take them backwards, I clarified that last one a dozen times. I identified that I had a source, a progressive New York City radio host, who told me in late July that whatever WikiLeaks had, whatever Assange had alluded to quite openly on CNN in June and again on Fox in August was devastating, was a bombshell, and that it would come in October.

I identified that source. I was ridiculed in the media repeatedly. Last week I produced text messages that proved indisputably that he was my source and that his source was a woman attorney working for WikiLeaks.

You won’t find that in The New York Times, or The Washington Post, or The Wall Street Journal.

Let’s go back to those emails, because I think they’re mischaracterized and they need some context.

The same day I got an email that was forwarded to me from James Rosen of Fox News saying that he had had a tip that the WikiLeaks disclosures pertained to the Clinton Foundation. Yes, I contacted Jerry Corsi because, at some point, Ted Malloch, who I had met once, had dropped Assange’s name. And like every politico in America, like every political reporter, I was interested in knowing what exactly they had.

But there was no response to that.

I mean, if I send you an email saying, George, let’s — you should rob a bank, but you don’t rob a bank…

STEPHANOPOULOS: You are saying you never spoke to Julian Assange, never contacted WikiLeaks, never spoke to any of that to President Trump?

STONE: That is absolutely correct. I turned over one direct message to the House Intelligence Committee between the flak for WikiLeaks and I, in which he essentially brushed me off. That immediately leaked to Atlantic magazine who then edited the context and published it.

No, I had no contact with Assange. Assange himself has said ‘Roger Stone is a brilliant spin master, we have had no communication with him whatsoever.’

STEPHANOPOULOS: And if Robert Mueller develops evidence, says that he can show that you did talk to WikiLeaks, did communicate with WikiLeaks and then did communicate with President Trump?

STONE: That’s all speculation, George, there is no such evidence. And in fact going back to the email, I think those have been mischaracterized, saying that these dumps are coming turns out to be completely incorrect. They don’t come in early August as predicted by Mr. Corsi.

And there’s no reference in that email to John Podesta’s emails either. It simply says Podesta will be exposed to the American people, whatever that means. It’s not as if those things had not been widely published in early August.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Have you had any contact with Robert Mueller or his prosecutors?

STONE: We have not.

STEPHANOPOULOS: None at all?

STONE: That is correct.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Doesn’t that suggest to you that you actually are a target? Usually they speak to the witnesses first?

STONE: Well, it suggests nothing at all. Again, where is the crime? I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the WikiLeaks Twitter feed and sent a Google News alert for Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosures when they came as politics.

You were in this business once, that’s called politics.

STEPHANOPOULOS: You’re proud of your work as a dirty trickster. Did you do any dirty tricks during the Trump campaign?

STONE: The characterization of me as a dirty trickster comes from Democrats. It will probably be on my epitaph.

STEPHANOPOULOS: It’s self-proclaimed. You’ve bragged about it as well.

STONE: Actually – find me the quote where I’ve self-proclaimed it. It kind of goes with the territory at this point. But I’ve never done anything in politics that was outside the norms of my colleagues and my contemporaries. And I’ve always made it clear that so-called dirty tricks but do not cross the line into illegality.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Did anyone in the Trump campaign cross the line?

STONE: Not that I’m aware of. Again, I still – I see some confusion in the public between low-key Russian meddling – ineffective, $100,000 worth of poorly written Facebook ads, and Russian collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian state, which to this day there is no evidence of and no proof of.

STEPHANOPOULOS: You say you’re always going to be loyal to President Trump. If you’re indicted or convicted, do you expect that he’ll pardon you?

STONE: First of all, generally speaking in politics, you avoid hypothetical questions. That said, there’s no circumstance under which I would testify against the president because I’d have to bear false witness against him. I’d have to make things up and I’m not going to do that. I’ve had no discussion regarding a pardon. The only person I’d push for a pardon for is Marcus Garvey, who I think should be pardoned posthumously and I wrote the president about that.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Not Paul Manafort?

STONE: I’ve had no such discussions.

STEPHANOPOULOS: And he says it’s not on the table right now, any pardon of Paul Manafort. You’ve had no discussions with the president, with anyone in his team about any of this?

STONE: That is correct.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Roger Stone, thanks for your time this morning.

STONE: Thank you.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Up next, the top Democrat in the House Intelligence Committee, Adam Schiff, is going to weigh in.-------------------Roger Stone: Never Talked to Assange About Emails, Mueller About Probe, Trump About Pardons





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” political consultant Roger Stone said he had no discussions with Wikileaks founder Julian Assange about the emails released during the 2016 presidential campaign of Donald Trump.

He also said has not spoken to special counsel Robert Mueller about his Russia investigation and insisted he has had no discussions with President Donald Trump about pardons.

Partial transcript as follows:

STEPHANOPOULOS: Roger Stone is here with us right now, welcome to “This Week”. It does appear that – that Robert Mueller is developing a case that you are a key part of this whole Russia investigation. Russia funnels the hacked emails to WikiLeaks, you’re the conduit between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign. Are you still confident you won’t be indicted?

STONE: Well none of that is true, of course, and there’s no evidence to support that supposition. It is now two years in, $30 million. I think few Americans could withstand the kind of legal proctological examination that Mr. Mueller has put me under. According to the New York Times, I was under surveillance by the Obama administration in 2016. They wrote that on January 20, 2017. And today there is still no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion between the Russian state and the Trump campaign involving WikiLeaks or not involving WikiLeaks.

STEPHANOPOULOS: You say no evidence, but I want to just put up — we know that Mueller has talked to about a dozen of your associates. We know he’s asked President Trump about your contacts. And we want to share some of the evidence that has just come out and then have you respond to it.

It’s July 25, 2016, email from you to Jerome Corsi where you say “get to Assange at the Ecuadorian embassy in London and get the pending WikiLeaks email.” You have another July 31st email to Corsi where you talk about a British man named Ted Malloch. You say “Malloch,” you tell him “should go see Assange.”

Corsi emails back to you on August 2, “word is our friend in the embassy,” that must be Assange, “plans two more dumps, one shortly after I’m back, second in October, impact planned to be very damaging.”

You had another email to another associate of yours, Sam Nunberg, on August 4, “I dined with my new pal, Julian Assange, last night.”

And then August 8, you actually said this to a group of Republicans down in Florida.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STONE: I actually have a — communicated with Assange. I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

STEPHANOPOULOS: But now you say you never communicated with Assange at all despite all of that documentary…

STONE: Well, first of all, let’s take them backwards, I clarified that last one a dozen times. I identified that I had a source, a progressive New York City radio host, who told me in late July that whatever WikiLeaks had, whatever Assange had alluded to quite openly on CNN in June and again on Fox in August was devastating, was a bombshell, and that it would come in October.

I identified that source. I was ridiculed in the media repeatedly. Last week I produced text messages that proved indisputably that he was my source and that his source was a woman attorney working for WikiLeaks.

You won’t find that in The New York Times, or The Washington Post, or The Wall Street Journal.

Let’s go back to those emails, because I think they’re mischaracterized and they need some context.

The same day I got an email that was forwarded to me from James Rosen of Fox News saying that he had had a tip that the WikiLeaks disclosures pertained to the Clinton Foundation. Yes, I contacted Jerry Corsi because, at some point, Ted Malloch, who I had met once, had dropped Assange’s name. And like every politico in America, like every political reporter, I was interested in knowing what exactly they had.

But there was no response to that.

I mean, if I send you an email saying, George, let’s — you should rob a bank, but you don’t rob a bank…

STEPHANOPOULOS: You are saying you never spoke to Julian Assange, never contacted WikiLeaks, never spoke to any of that to President Trump?

STONE: That is absolutely correct. I turned over one direct message to the House Intelligence Committee between the flak for WikiLeaks and I, in which he essentially brushed me off. That immediately leaked to Atlantic magazine who then edited the context and published it.

No, I had no contact with Assange. Assange himself has said ‘Roger Stone is a brilliant spin master, we have had no communication with him whatsoever.’

STEPHANOPOULOS: And if Robert Mueller develops evidence, says that he can show that you did talk to WikiLeaks, did communicate with WikiLeaks and then did communicate with President Trump?

STONE: That’s all speculation, George, there is no such evidence. And in fact going back to the email, I think those have been mischaracterized, saying that these dumps are coming turns out to be completely incorrect. They don’t come in early August as predicted by Mr. Corsi.

And there’s no reference in that email to John Podesta’s emails either. It simply says Podesta will be exposed to the American people, whatever that means. It’s not as if those things had not been widely published in early August.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Have you had any contact with Robert Mueller or his prosecutors?

STONE: We have not.

STEPHANOPOULOS: None at all?

STONE: That is correct.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Doesn’t that suggest to you that you actually are a target? Usually they speak to the witnesses first?

STONE: Well, it suggests nothing at all. Again, where is the crime? I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the WikiLeaks Twitter feed and sent a Google News alert for Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosures when they came as politics.

You were in this business once, that’s called politics.

STEPHANOPOULOS: You’re proud of your work as a dirty trickster. Did you do any dirty tricks during the Trump campaign?

STONE: The characterization of me as a dirty trickster comes from Democrats. It will probably be on my epitaph.

STEPHANOPOULOS: It’s self-proclaimed. You’ve bragged about it as well.

STONE: Actually – find me the quote where I’ve self-proclaimed it. It kind of goes with the territory at this point. But I’ve never done anything in politics that was outside the norms of my colleagues and my contemporaries. And I’ve always made it clear that so-called dirty tricks but do not cross the line into illegality.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Did anyone in the Trump campaign cross the line?

STONE: Not that I’m aware of. Again, I still – I see some confusion in the public between low-key Russian meddling – ineffective, $100,000 worth of poorly written Facebook ads, and Russian collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian state, which to this day there is no evidence of and no proof of.

STEPHANOPOULOS: You say you’re always going to be loyal to President Trump. If you’re indicted or convicted, do you expect that he’ll pardon you?

STONE: First of all, generally speaking in politics, you avoid hypothetical questions. That said, there’s no circumstance under which I would testify against the president because I’d have to bear false witness against him. I’d have to make things up and I’m not going to do that. I’ve had no discussion regarding a pardon. The only person I’d push for a pardon for is Marcus Garvey, who I think should be pardoned posthumously and I wrote the president about that.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Not Paul Manafort?

STONE: I’ve had no such discussions.

STEPHANOPOULOS: And he says it’s not on the table right now, any pardon of Paul Manafort. You’ve had no discussions with the president, with anyone in his team about any of this?

STONE: That is correct.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Roger Stone, thanks for your time this morning.

STONE: Thank you.

STEPHANOPOULOS: Up next, the top Democrat in the House Intelligence Committee, Adam Schiff, is going to weigh in.-------------------Brenda Snipes Takes Back Resignation as Broward’s Elections Chief





Disgraced Broward County Elections Supervisor Brenda Snipes took back her decision to resign as the county’s elections chief on Saturday after Gov. Rick Scott suspended her from her duties.

Snipes’ attorney announced at a Saturday press conference that her client would be rescinding her decision to resign from the post in January and vowed she would be “fighting this to the very end.”

“We believe these actions are malicious,” said Snipes’ attorney, Burnadette Norris-Weeks, telling Broward County voters that Scott’s appointment to the post could affect the predominantly Democratic county in the 2020 elections.

Scott suspended Snipes via executive order on Friday, appointing his former general counsel, Peter Antonacci, to the post to serve out the rest of her term. Antonacci would serve until November 2020, when voters will choose Snipes’ replacement.

State law requires the Florida Senate to vote on removing or reinstating county officials if the governor decides to suspend them.

The outgoing Florida Republican governor cited her “misfeasance, incompetence, and neglect of duty” during the recount for the 2018 U.S. Senate and gubernatorial races.

The 75-year-old Broward County elections supervisor initially resigned from her position after her office came under fire for botching the vote count in the November 6 elections, specifically the recount of a tight Senate race between Scott, a Republican, and incumbent Democrat Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL).

Broward County failed to meet the state’s deadline for turning in recount results in the midterms, misplaced thousands of ballots, and opened 205 provisional ballots before they were determined to be valid or invalid.

The disgraced elections supervisor also had a history of illegally destroying voter ballots in a 2016 Democratic primary for a congressional race between Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL) and Democratic challenger Tim Canova and had been accused of not removing dead voters from voter rolls.-------------------Brenda Snipes Takes Back Resignation as Broward’s Elections Chief





Disgraced Broward County Elections Supervisor Brenda Snipes took back her decision to resign as the county’s elections chief on Saturday after Gov. Rick Scott suspended her from her duties.

Snipes’ attorney announced at a Saturday press conference that her client would be rescinding her decision to resign from the post in January and vowed she would be “fighting this to the very end.”

“We believe these actions are malicious,” said Snipes’ attorney, Burnadette Norris-Weeks, telling Broward County voters that Scott’s appointment to the post could affect the predominantly Democratic county in the 2020 elections.

Scott suspended Snipes via executive order on Friday, appointing his former general counsel, Peter Antonacci, to the post to serve out the rest of her term. Antonacci would serve until November 2020, when voters will choose Snipes’ replacement.

State law requires the Florida Senate to vote on removing or reinstating county officials if the governor decides to suspend them.

The outgoing Florida Republican governor cited her “misfeasance, incompetence, and neglect of duty” during the recount for the 2018 U.S. Senate and gubernatorial races.

The 75-year-old Broward County elections supervisor initially resigned from her position after her office came under fire for botching the vote count in the November 6 elections, specifically the recount of a tight Senate race between Scott, a Republican, and incumbent Democrat Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL).

Broward County failed to meet the state’s deadline for turning in recount results in the midterms, misplaced thousands of ballots, and opened 205 provisional ballots before they were determined to be valid or invalid.

The disgraced elections supervisor also had a history of illegally destroying voter ballots in a 2016 Democratic primary for a congressional race between Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL) and Democratic challenger Tim Canova and had been accused of not removing dead voters from voter rolls.-------------------Ben Cardin: Trump White House Has Already Interfered in Mueller Probe





On this weekend’s broadcast of “Fox News Sunday,” Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD) said President Donald Trump has interfered with special counsel Robert Mueller‘s Russia probe.

Cardin said, “I worry more about this president interfering with an independent investigation and what impact that has not only America but for the rule of law around the world.”

He added, “Mr. Mueller needs to be able to complete his investigation without interference. He’s already had too much interference from the Trump White House. So I think that America, which stands for the rule of law, the leading democratic country in the world, our president needs to respect the independence of this investigation, and that’s a clear message around the world.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Ben Cardin: Trump White House Has Already Interfered in Mueller Probe





On this weekend’s broadcast of “Fox News Sunday,” Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD) said President Donald Trump has interfered with special counsel Robert Mueller‘s Russia probe.

Cardin said, “I worry more about this president interfering with an independent investigation and what impact that has not only America but for the rule of law around the world.”

He added, “Mr. Mueller needs to be able to complete his investigation without interference. He’s already had too much interference from the Trump White House. So I think that America, which stands for the rule of law, the leading democratic country in the world, our president needs to respect the independence of this investigation, and that’s a clear message around the world.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Nadler: Cohen Plea Suggests Putin ‘Has Leverage Over the President’





Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” likely incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY) said Michael Cohen’s admission that he lied to Congress about negotiations for a Trump Tower in Moscow suggested Russia may have leverage over the president.

Nadler said, “The fact that he was lying to the American people about doing business in Russia, and that the Kremlin knew he was lying, gave the Kremlin a hold over him. And one question we have now is: Does the Kremlin still have a hold over him because of other lies they know about.”

He added, “One question has always been why was the president so obsequious to Putin from the beginning of the campaign up to the present day. And it may be that it’s because the Kremlin has leverage over the president, which is a terrible thing if true.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Nadler: Cohen Plea Suggests Putin ‘Has Leverage Over the President’





Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” likely incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY) said Michael Cohen’s admission that he lied to Congress about negotiations for a Trump Tower in Moscow suggested Russia may have leverage over the president.

Nadler said, “The fact that he was lying to the American people about doing business in Russia, and that the Kremlin knew he was lying, gave the Kremlin a hold over him. And one question we have now is: Does the Kremlin still have a hold over him because of other lies they know about.”

He added, “One question has always been why was the president so obsequious to Putin from the beginning of the campaign up to the present day. And it may be that it’s because the Kremlin has leverage over the president, which is a terrible thing if true.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Donna Brazile: Cohen Guilty Plea a ‘Smoking Gun’





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” former interim Democratic National Committee chairwoman Donna Brazile said President Donald Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen guilty plea was a “smoking gun.”

Brazile said, “Michael Cohen once boasted he would take a bullet for Donald Trump. This week, he delivered the smoking gun.”

She continued, “Oh, yeah. That’s the smoking gun because once again, he said, what I provided before was consistent with what the president wanted me to say because I wanted to stay loyal to the president. Smoking gun saying, he said essentially that the White House, the president was lying at the time that he had no business dealing with Russia when he was looking to strike a deal with Russia on a tower.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Donna Brazile: Cohen Guilty Plea a ‘Smoking Gun’





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” former interim Democratic National Committee chairwoman Donna Brazile said President Donald Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen guilty plea was a “smoking gun.”

Brazile said, “Michael Cohen once boasted he would take a bullet for Donald Trump. This week, he delivered the smoking gun.”

She continued, “Oh, yeah. That’s the smoking gun because once again, he said, what I provided before was consistent with what the president wanted me to say because I wanted to stay loyal to the president. Smoking gun saying, he said essentially that the White House, the president was lying at the time that he had no business dealing with Russia when he was looking to strike a deal with Russia on a tower.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Dem Sen. Brown: ‘Hopeful’ About Trump’s Trade Discussion with China





Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) said he was “hopeful” President Donald Trump is doing the right things on trade with China

At the G20 summit, Trump put tariffs on hold while he negotiates with China.

Brown said, “I can’t tell. I think it’s important to step back and understand why all of this with China — and that is that half the world’s steel capacity is in China, half the world’s aluminum smelting capability is in China. They’ve had a history — decades of cheating on trade rules.”

He continued, “The whole point of tariffs is the tariffs are a temporary tool to reach a negotiation and to make change with Chinese-U.S. Relationships and what we’re doing with trade policy.”

He added, “I’m hopeful–it’s not clear to me yet that the president’s done this right, but I’m hopeful, from the early stages of this.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENSen-------------------Dem Sen. Brown: ‘Hopeful’ About Trump’s Trade Discussion with China





Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) said he was “hopeful” President Donald Trump is doing the right things on trade with China

At the G20 summit, Trump put tariffs on hold while he negotiates with China.

Brown said, “I can’t tell. I think it’s important to step back and understand why all of this with China — and that is that half the world’s steel capacity is in China, half the world’s aluminum smelting capability is in China. They’ve had a history — decades of cheating on trade rules.”

He continued, “The whole point of tariffs is the tariffs are a temporary tool to reach a negotiation and to make change with Chinese-U.S. Relationships and what we’re doing with trade policy.”

He added, “I’m hopeful–it’s not clear to me yet that the president’s done this right, but I’m hopeful, from the early stages of this.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENSen-------------------Nadler Accuses Trump of Knowing About Cohen Cover-Up — ‘We Have a President Who Lies Incessantly’





Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” current House Judiciary Committee ranking member and presumed future committee chairman Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY) said President Donald Trump knew his former personal lawyer Michael Cohen lied to Congress about Trump’s business in Russia.

When asked if Trump knew Cohen was lying, Nadler said, “We have a president who lies incessantly to the American people about big matters and small matters, who surrounds himself with people who lie incessantly to the American people. The key fact now is that the time that he can get away with lying to the American people all the time and evading accountability is coming to an end, and I do think that this is a very serious matter.”

He added, “Among other things, the fact that he was lying to the American people about doing business in Russia and that the Kremlin knew he was lying gave the Kremlin a hold over him. One question we have now is: Does the Kremlin still have a hold over him because of other lies that they know about?”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Nadler Accuses Trump of Knowing About Cohen Cover-Up — ‘We Have a President Who Lies Incessantly’





Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” current House Judiciary Committee ranking member and presumed future committee chairman Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY) said President Donald Trump knew his former personal lawyer Michael Cohen lied to Congress about Trump’s business in Russia.

When asked if Trump knew Cohen was lying, Nadler said, “We have a president who lies incessantly to the American people about big matters and small matters, who surrounds himself with people who lie incessantly to the American people. The key fact now is that the time that he can get away with lying to the American people all the time and evading accountability is coming to an end, and I do think that this is a very serious matter.”

He added, “Among other things, the fact that he was lying to the American people about doing business in Russia and that the Kremlin knew he was lying gave the Kremlin a hold over him. One question we have now is: Does the Kremlin still have a hold over him because of other lies that they know about?”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Adam Schiff: Trump Is ‘Compromised’ by Russian Ties — ‘That Puts Our Country At Risk’





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) said President Donald Trump and his organization “were compromised” by business dealing with Russia.

Schiff said, “The very broad significance here is that there is now testimony there is now a witness who confirms that in the same way Michael Flynn was compromised that the president and his business are compromised. The national security, former national security adviser Michael Flynn was compromised because he was saying things publicly that were not true about discussions with the Russians over sanctions. Now we have Michael Cohen saying that what the president was saying, what Michael Cohen was saying, and others were saying about hen this business deal ended was not true. And what’s more, the Russians knew it wasn’t true. At the same time Donald Trump was the presumptive nominee of the GOP and arguing in favor of doing away with sanctions, he was working on a deal that would require doing away with sanctions for him to make money in Russia. That is a real problem. That means that the compromise is far broader than we thought.”

He added, “The Mueller investigation as was the Comey investigation was a counterintelligence investigation, an investigation into whether Donald Trump and his organization were compromised. And now via Michael Cohen, we find out that, yes, there was compromise. That puts our country at risk.”

Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Adam Schiff: Trump Is ‘Compromised’ by Russian Ties — ‘That Puts Our Country At Risk’





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) said President Donald Trump and his organization “were compromised” by business dealing with Russia.

Schiff said, “The very broad significance here is that there is now testimony there is now a witness who confirms that in the same way Michael Flynn was compromised that the president and his business are compromised. The national security, former national security adviser Michael Flynn was compromised because he was saying things publicly that were not true about discussions with the Russians over sanctions. Now we have Michael Cohen saying that what the president was saying, what Michael Cohen was saying, and others were saying about hen this business deal ended was not true. And what’s more, the Russians knew it wasn’t true. At the same time Donald Trump was the presumptive nominee of the GOP and arguing in favor of doing away with sanctions, he was working on a deal that would require doing away with sanctions for him to make money in Russia. That is a real problem. That means that the compromise is far broader than we thought.”

He added, “The Mueller investigation as was the Comey investigation was a counterintelligence investigation, an investigation into whether Donald Trump and his organization were compromised. And now via Michael Cohen, we find out that, yes, there was compromise. That puts our country at risk.”

Follow Pam Key On Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Emmanuel Macron Considers State of Emergency in France





French President Emmanuel Macron is considering imposing a state of emergency in France after violent protests in Paris saw the Arc de Triomphe vandalised and hundreds of arrests.

President Macron was met with jeers and calls for his resignation by bystanders as he toured the damage along the Champs-Élysée on Sunday morning after his return from G20 in Buenos Aires.

Macron visited the Arc de Triomphe which was vandalised with graffiti that read “Macron resign” and “Yellow Vests will triumph” after the capital experienced its third straight weekend of civil unrest over rising taxes linked to the progressive president’s climate change programme.

Reuters reports that after surveying the damage, the 40-year-old premier met with security officers, Minister of the Interior Christophe Castaner, and Prime Minister Édouard Philippe.

Government spokesman Benjamin Griveaux confirmed a state of emergency was on the table, saying: “It is out of the question that each weekend becomes a meeting or ritual for violence.”

Mr Griveaux added that the president was ready for dialogue with the Yellow Vest protesters — but will not back down from his green agenda.

“We won’t change course. It’s the right direction. We are certain of that,” he said.

The populist right-wing leader of the National Rally Marine Le Pen and far-leftist Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the leader of the Unsubmissive France party, have called for Parliament to be dissolved and fresh elections to be held.

However, despite Macron having public support hovering at around 25 per cent, he is only one and a half years into his five-year mandate and has considerable support in the French legislative assembly.

According to interior ministry figures, 3,000 people took part in the action on Saturday in Paris, where police made 412 arrests and used over 10,000 tear gas canisters and stun grenades in an attempt to defuse protesters. In addition, 133 people were injured, including 23 police officers.

A sculpture of Marianne, a symbol of the French Republic which is housed in the gallery inside the monument, was also severely damaged during the demonstration Saturday.

Aside from the damage inflicted on the Arc, rioters also attacked the neighbourhood’s luxury homes, high-end boutiques, and set cars on fire.

Officials estimated that 75,000 people took part in action across the country, with a local prosecutor confirming that one driver died on Sunday in Arles, in the south of France, after an accident at a roadblock set up by protesters on Saturday.

Hitherto, Macron has painted all protesters as violent. However, French politicians and the government have recently been keen to draw a distinction between Yellow Jacket protesters — who are experiencing a high amount of support from the French public — and extremists on the left and right who have infiltrated the protests. Authorities have confirmed that anarchists and “thugs” from the Parisian suburbs have also hijacked demonstrations, turning them violent.

The Yellow Jackets/Vests or Gilets Jaunes movement began three weeks ago as a protest against Macron’s climate change inspired fuel tax hikes, with protesters saying Macron is a “president of the rich” and does not care about the concerns of everyday citizens. Similar action has sprung up in Brussels in Belgium, and the Hague in the Netherlands.

The violence has been dubbed the worst in 50 years, when in May 1968 occupations, riots, and strikes were so severe French politicians feared civil war and revolution.

Paris in Flames: Violence, ‘Insurrection’ in Third Week of Yellow Jacket Protests https://t.co/Iip9DRCsaE — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) December 2, 2018-------------------Emmanuel Macron Considers State of Emergency in France





French President Emmanuel Macron is considering imposing a state of emergency in France after violent protests in Paris saw the Arc de Triomphe vandalised and hundreds of arrests.

President Macron was met with jeers and calls for his resignation by bystanders as he toured the damage along the Champs-Élysée on Sunday morning after his return from G20 in Buenos Aires.

Macron visited the Arc de Triomphe which was vandalised with graffiti that read “Macron resign” and “Yellow Vests will triumph” after the capital experienced its third straight weekend of civil unrest over rising taxes linked to the progressive president’s climate change programme.

Reuters reports that after surveying the damage, the 40-year-old premier met with security officers, Minister of the Interior Christophe Castaner, and Prime Minister Édouard Philippe.

Government spokesman Benjamin Griveaux confirmed a state of emergency was on the table, saying: “It is out of the question that each weekend becomes a meeting or ritual for violence.”

Mr Griveaux added that the president was ready for dialogue with the Yellow Vest protesters — but will not back down from his green agenda.

“We won’t change course. It’s the right direction. We are certain of that,” he said.

The populist right-wing leader of the National Rally Marine Le Pen and far-leftist Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the leader of the Unsubmissive France party, have called for Parliament to be dissolved and fresh elections to be held.

However, despite Macron having public support hovering at around 25 per cent, he is only one and a half years into his five-year mandate and has considerable support in the French legislative assembly.

According to interior ministry figures, 3,000 people took part in the action on Saturday in Paris, where police made 412 arrests and used over 10,000 tear gas canisters and stun grenades in an attempt to defuse protesters. In addition, 133 people were injured, including 23 police officers.

A sculpture of Marianne, a symbol of the French Republic which is housed in the gallery inside the monument, was also severely damaged during the demonstration Saturday.

Aside from the damage inflicted on the Arc, rioters also attacked the neighbourhood’s luxury homes, high-end boutiques, and set cars on fire.

Officials estimated that 75,000 people took part in action across the country, with a local prosecutor confirming that one driver died on Sunday in Arles, in the south of France, after an accident at a roadblock set up by protesters on Saturday.

Hitherto, Macron has painted all protesters as violent. However, French politicians and the government have recently been keen to draw a distinction between Yellow Jacket protesters — who are experiencing a high amount of support from the French public — and extremists on the left and right who have infiltrated the protests. Authorities have confirmed that anarchists and “thugs” from the Parisian suburbs have also hijacked demonstrations, turning them violent.

The Yellow Jackets/Vests or Gilets Jaunes movement began three weeks ago as a protest against Macron’s climate change inspired fuel tax hikes, with protesters saying Macron is a “president of the rich” and does not care about the concerns of everyday citizens. Similar action has sprung up in Brussels in Belgium, and the Hague in the Netherlands.

The violence has been dubbed the worst in 50 years, when in May 1968 occupations, riots, and strikes were so severe French politicians feared civil war and revolution.

Paris in Flames: Violence, ‘Insurrection’ in Third Week of Yellow Jacket Protests https://t.co/Iip9DRCsaE — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) December 2, 2018-------------------Schiff: Trump Refusal to Rule out Manafort Pardon Evidence of Obstruction of Justice





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) said President Donald Trump saying last week he would not rule out a pardon for his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was more evidence of the president “obstructing justice.”

Schiff said, “The president continues to dangle a pardon for Paul Manafort, which only adds to growing body of evidence that the president is engaged in obstructing justice.”

Discussing Department of Justice special counsel Robert Mueller, Schiff added, “You cannot have people who are essentially in discussions with you flaunt that process, deceive you, if you want to telegraph to other witnesses that you darn well better be true when you say you want to cooperate with us.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Schiff: Trump Refusal to Rule out Manafort Pardon Evidence of Obstruction of Justice





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) said President Donald Trump saying last week he would not rule out a pardon for his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was more evidence of the president “obstructing justice.”

Schiff said, “The president continues to dangle a pardon for Paul Manafort, which only adds to growing body of evidence that the president is engaged in obstructing justice.”

Discussing Department of Justice special counsel Robert Mueller, Schiff added, “You cannot have people who are essentially in discussions with you flaunt that process, deceive you, if you want to telegraph to other witnesses that you darn well better be true when you say you want to cooperate with us.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Roger Stone: ‘I Engaged In Politics,’ Not Crime





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” political consultant Roger Stone said he engaged in politics during the 2016 presidential campaign and not crime, as he has been accused.

Stone said, “It is now two years in over $30 million. I think few Americans could withstand the kind of legal proctological examination that Mr. Mueller has put me under.”

He continued, “Today there is still no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion between the Russian state and the Trump campaign involving Wikileaks or not involving Wikileaks.”

When asked if he communicated with Julian Assange, Stone said no.

He added, “Where is the crime? I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the Wikileaks’ Twitter feed and set a Google news alert for Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosures when they came as politics. You were in this business once. that’s called politics.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Roger Stone: ‘I Engaged In Politics,’ Not Crime





Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” political consultant Roger Stone said he engaged in politics during the 2016 presidential campaign and not crime, as he has been accused.

Stone said, “It is now two years in over $30 million. I think few Americans could withstand the kind of legal proctological examination that Mr. Mueller has put me under.”

He continued, “Today there is still no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion between the Russian state and the Trump campaign involving Wikileaks or not involving Wikileaks.”

When asked if he communicated with Julian Assange, Stone said no.

He added, “Where is the crime? I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the Wikileaks’ Twitter feed and set a Google news alert for Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosures when they came as politics. You were in this business once. that’s called politics.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Warner: In 2016 GOP Voters Should Have Known Trump’s Business in Russia





Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) said Republican voters would have thought then-candidate Donald Trump’s potential deal for a Trump Tower in Moscow was “a relevant fact.”

Warner said, “What I find with the revelation of Cohen’s plea, he is saying he lied to protect then candidate’s Trump’s stories that he had nothing to do with Russia. The president seems to be changing his story already saying it’s all legal.”

He continued, “I believe most Republicans about to nominate Donald Trump in the summer of ‘16 would probably have thought it was a relevant fact, they would have liked to have known that then-candidate Trump was still trying to do business with Russia.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Warner: In 2016 GOP Voters Should Have Known Trump’s Business in Russia





Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) said Republican voters would have thought then-candidate Donald Trump’s potential deal for a Trump Tower in Moscow was “a relevant fact.”

Warner said, “What I find with the revelation of Cohen’s plea, he is saying he lied to protect then candidate’s Trump’s stories that he had nothing to do with Russia. The president seems to be changing his story already saying it’s all legal.”

He continued, “I believe most Republicans about to nominate Donald Trump in the summer of ‘16 would probably have thought it was a relevant fact, they would have liked to have known that then-candidate Trump was still trying to do business with Russia.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN-------------------Labour MP Quits After Threatening to 'Smash' Reporter's Face with Bat





Labour MP Kate Osamor has quit the shadow front bench after reportedly attacking a journalist who asked questions about her son’s conviction for having £2,500-worth of drugs with the intent to supply.

In a statement posted to Twitter Saturday, the Edmonton MP said she had resigned as shadow international development secretary “to concentrate on supporting my family through the difficult time we have been experiencing”.

The announcement came just hours after The Times alleged Osamor had threatened a reporter who approached her for comment on whether she had misled the public over how much she knew about the drugs conviction of her son, Ishmael, whom she employs in her Commons office on a substantial salary.

She reportedly told the journalist to “f*** off” and threw a bucket of water at him, proclaiming that she “should have come down here with a bat and smashed your face in”.

She is said to have followed this by ringing the police and claiming the reporter was stalking her.

Earlier on Friday evening Ms Osamor was knocking on doors to talk about violent crime. Later when someone knocked on her door to politely give her a response to allegations pre-publication she threatened to smash their faces in with bat. https://t.co/ZaEaaDrwNX — Harry Cole (@MrHarryCole) December 1, 2018

Osamor was reported to Parliament’s standards watchdog last month over her continuing to employ her son despite his guilty plea in September after being caught with ecstasy, cocaine, ketamine, and cannabis at a music festival in Dorset last year.

Labour Party officials had claimed the left-wing MP knew nothing about her son’s arrest until after he was handed a community sentence on October 19th, when the judge reportedly told the 29-year-old he was “very lucky” he was being spared jail.

However, it was revealed in The Times that Osamor, who it was noted by The Sun newspaper had previously campaigned on an anti-drugs stance, had written to the trial judge asking for leniency towards her son and describing his remorse.

Former international development secretary Priti Patel said Labour Party officials should make a full statement about what they knew about this case and why he continued to be employed on the public payroll at Westminster, adding that “serious questions must be asked about whether she has misled the public in her account so far of what she knew and when she knew it.”

These were the drugs Labour MP Kate Osamor’s son was caught with that were only for him and his friends. I guess he must have a LOT of friends. pic.twitter.com/CGQb9o05pt — Julia Hartley-Brewer (@JuliaHB1) December 1, 2018

While the party has so far declined to comment on the issues raised in the Times report, Jeremy Corbyn issued a statement after Ms Osamor’s resignation as shadow development secretary which thanked her for “[bringing] a new dimension to the role by committing Labour to tackling global inequality as well as poverty as part of building a world for the many not the few.

“I know Kate will take this time to support her family, work for her constituents and support our party’s efforts to rebuild Britain from the backbenches,” the Labour leader said.

Martha Osamor, mother of Kate and co-founder of United Black Women’s Action Group, is due to take her seat in the House of Lords on Tuesday. — George Eaton (@georgeeaton) December 1, 2018-------------------Labour MP Quits After Threatening to 'Smash' Reporter's Face with Bat





Labour MP Kate Osamor has quit the shadow front bench after reportedly attacking a journalist who asked questions about her son’s conviction for having £2,500-worth of drugs with the intent to supply.

In a statement posted to Twitter Saturday, the Edmonton MP said she had resigned as shadow international development secretary “to concentrate on supporting my family through the difficult time we have been experiencing”.

The announcement came just hours after The Times alleged Osamor had threatened a reporter who approached her for comment on whether she had misled the public over how much she knew about the drugs conviction of her son, Ishmael, whom she employs in her Commons office on a substantial salary.

She reportedly told the journalist to “f*** off” and threw a bucket of water at him, proclaiming that she “should have come down here with a bat and smashed your face in”.

She is said to have followed this by ringing the police and claiming the reporter was stalking her.

Earlier on Friday evening Ms Osamor was knocking on doors to talk about violent crime. Later when someone knocked on her door to politely give her a response to allegations pre-publication she threatened to smash their faces in with bat. https://t.co/ZaEaaDrwNX — Harry Cole (@MrHarryCole) December 1, 2018

Osamor was reported to Parliament’s standards watchdog last month over her continuing to employ her son despite his guilty plea in September after being caught with ecstasy, cocaine, ketamine, and cannabis at a music festival in Dorset last year.

Labour Party officials had claimed the left-wing MP knew nothing about her son’s arrest until after he was handed a community sentence on October 19th, when the judge reportedly told the 29-year-old he was “very lucky” he was being spared jail.

However, it was revealed in The Times that Osamor, who it was noted by The Sun newspaper had previously campaigned on an anti-drugs stance, had written to the trial judge asking for leniency towards her son and describing his remorse.

Former international development secretary Priti Patel said Labour Party officials should make a full statement about what they knew about this case and why he continued to be employed on the public payroll at Westminster, adding that “serious questions must be asked about whether she has misled the public in her account so far of what she knew and when she knew it.”

These were the drugs Labour MP Kate Osamor’s son was caught with that were only for him and his friends. I guess he must have a LOT of friends. pic.twitter.com/CGQb9o05pt — Julia Hartley-Brewer (@JuliaHB1) December 1, 2018

While the party has so far declined to comment on the issues raised in the Times report, Jeremy Corbyn issued a statement after Ms Osamor’s resignation as shadow development secretary which thanked her for “[bringing] a new dimension to the role by committing Labour to tackling global inequality as well as poverty as part of building a world for the many not the few.

“I know Kate will take this time to support her family, work for her constituents and support our party’s efforts to rebuild Britain from the backbenches,” the Labour leader said.

Martha Osamor, mother of Kate and co-founder of United Black Women’s Action Group, is due to take her seat in the House of Lords on Tuesday. — George Eaton (@georgeeaton) December 1, 2018-------------------Pollak: The Media Belatedly Loved George H.W. Bush — For the Wrong Reasons





The nation is mourning the passing of President George H.W. Bush, one of the greatest Americans. In the voluminous tributes that have appeared in the media since Friday evening, Bush has been appropriately honored for his lifetime of public service and his legacy — most of all, perhaps, his large and loving family, equally devoted to the nation he led.

President Bush — “Bush 41” or “Bush senior,” as he was later called, to distinguish him from his son, George W. — should be remembered for three great accomplishments.

The first is his heroism in the Second World War, when he was among the country’s youngest naval aviators, and survived being shot down by the Japanese over the Pacific.

The second milestone was when, as president, Bush oversaw the end of the Cold War. Though the collapse of the Soviet Union was a result of the policies of his predecessor, President Ronald Reagan, and the fall of the Berlin Wall initially took the White House by surprise, President Bush seized the moment to welcome the world’s newest free peoples.

The third success was the Gulf War, when Bush inspired the nation to overcome the lingering self-doubt of the Vietnam War and to trust once again in the U.S. military — a trust that has never wavered since.

He was also a fundamentally decent man, who — unlike others — set aside political disagreements to insist, before his death, that President Donald Trump attend his funeral.

Yet the media obscured many of Bush’s achievements and qualities when he was still an active political leader.

In the 1992 presidential election, for example, the media portrayed Bush as a man hopelessly out of touch with his time. In one of the earliest examples of “fake news,” the New York Times reported that President Bush had been “amazed” by the technologies of modern supermarkets. It was a lie.

It was only years later that the media discovered that Bush had not been just a one-term president, but also one of the better presidents in American history. They developed a newfound respect for Bush for three reasons.

The first reason was that he proved to be a useful media foil against his son during the debate over the Iraq War. Conveniently, many of the elder Bush’s advisers were opposed to the new, more assertive national security policies of the U.S. after the terror attacks of 9/11.

The Iraq Study Group, led in part by former Secretary of State James Baker, was cast as a kind of paternal intervention — which, to George W. Bush’s credit, he rejected, backing a successful “surge” rather than a hasty withdrawal (a victory Barack Obama later squandered).

The second reason for the revival of Bush’s reputation was that he came to symbolize an alternative to conservatism in general.

After all, it was Bush who, as a rival for the Republican presidential nomination in 1980, first called Reagan’s supply-side policies “voodoo economics.” That once proved fodder for Reagan’s critics. Later, the fact that Bush voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 provided ammunition to Trump’s opponents, and to the anti-Trump media.

As president, while Bush nominated Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, who remains a staunch conservative, he also chose David Souter, who became the archetypal example of a Republican appointee defecting to the left.

Crucially, Bush alienated conservatives by infamously reneging on his “no new taxes” pledge. “Conservatives in his party never trusted him again,” Time recalled Saturday, praising Bush for doing “the right thing.”

Bush’s retreat on taxes hurt his support among the Republican base in 1992, and he faced a primary challenge from Pat Buchanan as a result. Some of his voters also chose Ross Perot instead.

That led to the third, and most important, reason the media elevated Bush: he lost to Bill Clinton. It is the same reason they celebrated the late John McCain as a hero after demonizing him to defeat in the 2008 presidential election.

To the media, the highest civic duty of a Republican is to yield power to a Democrat, so that the “long arc of history” may continue bending towards utopia. No Republican who wins will ever be given his or her due.

George H.W. Bush always deserved better from the American media — and his example of service, unsullied by politics, will continue to inspire the nation he loved.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.-------------------Pollak: The Media Belatedly Loved George H.W. Bush — For the Wrong Reasons





The nation is mourning the passing of President George H.W. Bush, one of the greatest Americans. In the voluminous tributes that have appeared in the media since Friday evening, Bush has been appropriately honored for his lifetime of public service and his legacy — most of all, perhaps, his large and loving family, equally devoted to the nation he led.

President Bush — “Bush 41” or “Bush senior,” as he was later called, to distinguish him from his son, George W. — should be remembered for three great accomplishments.

The first is his heroism in the Second World War, when he was among the country’s youngest naval aviators, and survived being shot down by the Japanese over the Pacific.

The second milestone was when, as president, Bush oversaw the end of the Cold War. Though the collapse of the Soviet Union was a result of the policies of his predecessor, President Ronald Reagan, and the fall of the Berlin Wall initially took the White House by surprise, President Bush seized the moment to welcome the world’s newest free peoples.

The third success was the Gulf War, when Bush inspired the nation to overcome the lingering self-doubt of the Vietnam War and to trust once again in the U.S. military — a trust that has never wavered since.

He was also a fundamentally decent man, who — unlike others — set aside political disagreements to insist, before his death, that President Donald Trump attend his funeral.

Yet the media obscured many of Bush’s achievements and qualities when he was still an active political leader.

In the 1992 presidential election, for example, the media portrayed Bush as a man hopelessly out of touch with his time. In one of the earliest examples of “fake news,” the New York Times reported that President Bush had been “amazed” by the technologies of modern supermarkets. It was a lie.

It was only years later that the media discovered that Bush had not been just a one-term president, but also one of the better presidents in American history. They developed a newfound respect for Bush for three reasons.

The first reason was that he proved to be a useful media foil against his son during the debate over the Iraq War. Conveniently, many of the elder Bush’s advisers were opposed to the new, more assertive national security policies of the U.S. after the terror attacks of 9/11.

The Iraq Study Group, led in part by former Secretary of State James Baker, was cast as a kind of paternal intervention — which, to George W. Bush’s credit, he rejected, backing a successful “surge” rather than a hasty withdrawal (a victory Barack Obama later squandered).

The second reason for the revival of Bush’s reputation was that he came to symbolize an alternative to conservatism in general.

After all, it was Bush who, as a rival for the Republican presidential nomination in 1980, first called Reagan’s supply-side policies “voodoo economics.” That once proved fodder for Reagan’s critics. Later, the fact that Bush voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 provided ammunition to Trump’s opponents, and to the anti-Trump media.

As president, while Bush nominated Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, who remains a staunch conservative, he also chose David Souter, who became the archetypal example of a Republican appointee defecting to the left.

Crucially, Bush alienated conservatives by infamously reneging on his “no new taxes” pledge. “Conservatives in his party never trusted him again,” Time recalled Saturday, praising Bush for doing “the right thing.”

Bush’s retreat on taxes hurt his support among the Republican base in 1992, and he faced a primary challenge from Pat Buchanan as a result. Some of his voters also chose Ross Perot instead.

That led to the third, and most important, reason the media elevated Bush: he lost to Bill Clinton. It is the same reason they celebrated the late John McCain as a hero after demonizing him to defeat in the 2008 presidential election.

To the media, the highest civic duty of a Republican is to yield power to a Democrat, so that the “long arc of history” may continue bending towards utopia. No Republican who wins will ever be given his or her due.

George H.W. Bush always deserved better from the American media — and his example of service, unsullied by politics, will continue to inspire the nation he loved.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.-------------------Swedish Poll Shows Populist Gains, Greens and Liberals Teetering Around Election Threshold





Sweden is still without a government over two months after the national election and a poll shows a new election could see an increase for the populist Sweden Democrats.

The poll, which is itself a compilation of various polls, was released by Sifo this week and shows the populist Sweden Democrats gaining at 19.2 percent, ahead of their historic 17.5 percent in September’s national election, and ahead of the conservative Moderate party, broadcaster Sveriges Radio reports.

While the Moderates, whose members have said they would support opening negotiations with the Sweden Democrats, have fallen slightly in the polls, the Centre party, which is a member of the four-party Alliance along with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, has gained slightly.

The Liberals, however, have lost support and sit at 4.6 percent, dangerously close to the four percent cut-off to enter parliament which could see them lose all of their current 20 seats in what would be a blow to the Alliance as a whole.

The anti-mass migration Sweden Democrats hold the keys to a new government, but they are being frozen out of talks by the legacy parties https://t.co/0yb2G8F2U3 — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 19, 2018

The Green Party are in an even worse situation at 4.1 percent and risk losing all of their 16 seats should a snap election be called due to the lack of a stable coalition government.

Since the vote to force former Prime Minister Stefan Lövfen to step down as leader of the government, several attempts have been made to form a new coalition by Löfven himself and by Moderate party leader Ulf Kristersson, but all have met with failure.

One of the main factors has been the refusal by members of the “conservative” Alliance, particularly the Liberals and the Centre Party, to work with the Sweden Democrats.

Centre Party leader Annie Lööf criticised Kristersson for thinking of bringing in the populist party to negotiations, saying: “It is clear that it is sad that you choose to go with a less moderate government that requires SD’s active support.”-------------------Swedish Poll Shows Populist Gains, Greens and Liberals Teetering Around Election Threshold





Sweden is still without a government over two months after the national election and a poll shows a new election could see an increase for the populist Sweden Democrats.

The poll, which is itself a compilation of various polls, was released by Sifo this week and shows the populist Sweden Democrats gaining at 19.2 percent, ahead of their historic 17.5 percent in September’s national election, and ahead of the conservative Moderate party, broadcaster Sveriges Radio reports.

While the Moderates, whose members have said they would support opening negotiations with the Sweden Democrats, have fallen slightly in the polls, the Centre party, which is a member of the four-party Alliance along with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, has gained slightly.

The Liberals, however, have lost support and sit at 4.6 percent, dangerously close to the four percent cut-off to enter parliament which could see them lose all of their current 20 seats in what would be a blow to the Alliance as a whole.

The anti-mass migration Sweden Democrats hold the keys to a new government, but they are being frozen out of talks by the legacy parties https://t.co/0yb2G8F2U3 — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 19, 2018

The Green Party are in an even worse situation at 4.1 percent and risk losing all of their 16 seats should a snap election be called due to the lack of a stable coalition government.

Since the vote to force former Prime Minister Stefan Lövfen to step down as leader of the government, several attempts have been made to form a new coalition by Löfven himself and by Moderate party leader Ulf Kristersson, but all have met with failure.

One of the main factors has been the refusal by members of the “conservative” Alliance, particularly the Liberals and the Centre Party, to work with the Sweden Democrats.

Centre Party leader Annie Lööf criticised Kristersson for thinking of bringing in the populist party to negotiations, saying: “It is clear that it is sad that you choose to go with a less moderate government that requires SD’s active support.”-------------------Paris in Flames: Violence, ‘Insurrection’ in Third Week of Yellow Jacket Protests





In the third straight week of protests by the Gilets Jaunes (Yellow Jackets) movement, hundreds of protestors were arrested as violence and arson took place across the country with smoke blanketing the Paris skyline in what has been called an “insurrection”.

While protests took place across France, much of the violence and arson took place in the French capital in what was seen as a further escalation of violence from the previous protest last Saturday.

According to French broadcaster BFMTV, more than 287 people were arrested in Paris alone, many of them arrested at the Place de l’Étoile/Place Charles De Gaulle, the location of the iconic Arc de Triomphe where much of the clashes between members of the police and the Yellow Jackets took place.

Much of the violence has been blamed on vandals, called “casseurs” in French, who are believed to come from a variety of backgrounds including far-left anarchists, far-right extremists, and petty criminals from the heavily migrant-populated suburbs surrounding the French capital.

Some of the protestors caused controversy for spraypainting graffiti on the Arc de Triomphe itself, with some calling it evidence that those behind it were likely far-left extremists with some of the graffiti stating “the ultra-right will lose” and “Justice for Adama” — a reference to the 2016 death of Adama Traoré, who activists claim was murdered by a Gendarmes officer.

« Justice pour Adama », « l’ultra droite perdra »…. pas de doute sur le fait que les auteurs des dégradations soient d’extrême gauche. #GiletsJaunes #ChampsElysees #1erDecembre pic.twitter.com/9udq8EdNNh — Damien Rieu (@DamienRieu) December 1, 2018

Later in the day, a group of casseurs also set fire to a building near the iconic monument, which was not the only arson attack as 190 fires in total were dealt with during the day by Paris firefighters including six buildings set aflame altogether.

While there were no confirmed reports of fatalities, 110 people in total were wounded in the day-long violence, including 17 police officers. One of the most seriously injured was a man who lost several fingers on his hand due to the explosion of a pyrotechnic device.

Arson attacks also took place in other cities across France, most notably in the department of Haute-Loire where protestors set the local prefecture building on fire after one protester allegedly threw a molotov cocktail through the window.

LA préfecture du Puy-en-Velay en flamme pic.twitter.com/dpwhHVeVvm — Pierre Sautarel (@FrDesouche) December 1, 2018

French interior minister Christophe Castaner reacted to the escalation of violence saying he has been monitoring the situation closely and has no “taboo” over declaring a national state of emergency should the need arise.

Castaner also told French media that authorities had identified at least 3,000 suspects connected with the various arson attacks and violence that took place.

“There are people who come from the extreme right, the extreme left, but there are also many people who came to Paris to vandalise,” Castaner said, and added that they were an “extreme minority, an insurrectional minority, they want to break everything, destroy everything. They are basically hooligans.”

The word “insurrection” was also used by populist Rassemblement National (National Rally) leader Marine Le Pen, who took to Twitter to condemn the violence, saying: “The casseurs triggered an insurrectionary situation in Paris. Dear Gilets Jaunes, you should leave the premises in order to allow the forces of the order to intervene and overcome these abuses.”

Ms Le Pen also called on President Emmanuel Macron to meet with leaders of the opposition parties in order to work on a resolution to the violence upon his return from the G20 summit in Argentina.

“I ask the President of the Republic, who has let this situation get worse in an incredible way, to receive the leaders of opposition political parties, at the forefront of which is the Rassemblement National, upon his return from Argentina,” she wrote.-------------------Paris in Flames: Violence, ‘Insurrection’ in Third Week of Yellow Jacket Protests





In the third straight week of protests by the Gilets Jaunes (Yellow Jackets) movement, hundreds of protestors were arrested as violence and arson took place across the country with smoke blanketing the Paris skyline in what has been called an “insurrection”.

While protests took place across France, much of the violence and arson took place in the French capital in what was seen as a further escalation of violence from the previous protest last Saturday.

According to French broadcaster BFMTV, more than 287 people were arrested in Paris alone, many of them arrested at the Place de l’Étoile/Place Charles De Gaulle, the location of the iconic Arc de Triomphe where much of the clashes between members of the police and the Yellow Jackets took place.

Much of the violence has been blamed on vandals, called “casseurs” in French, who are believed to come from a variety of backgrounds including far-left anarchists, far-right extremists, and petty criminals from the heavily migrant-populated suburbs surrounding the French capital.

Some of the protestors caused controversy for spraypainting graffiti on the Arc de Triomphe itself, with some calling it evidence that those behind it were likely far-left extremists with some of the graffiti stating “the ultra-right will lose” and “Justice for Adama” — a reference to the 2016 death of Adama Traoré, who activists claim was murdered by a Gendarmes officer.

« Justice pour Adama », « l’ultra droite perdra »…. pas de doute sur le fait que les auteurs des dégradations soient d’extrême gauche. #GiletsJaunes #ChampsElysees #1erDecembre pic.twitter.com/9udq8EdNNh — Damien Rieu (@DamienRieu) December 1, 2018

Later in the day, a group of casseurs also set fire to a building near the iconic monument, which was not the only arson attack as 190 fires in total were dealt with during the day by Paris firefighters including six buildings set aflame altogether.

While there were no confirmed reports of fatalities, 110 people in total were wounded in the day-long violence, including 17 police officers. One of the most seriously injured was a man who lost several fingers on his hand due to the explosion of a pyrotechnic device.

Arson attacks also took place in other cities across France, most notably in the department of Haute-Loire where protestors set the local prefecture building on fire after one protester allegedly threw a molotov cocktail through the window.

LA préfecture du Puy-en-Velay en flamme pic.twitter.com/dpwhHVeVvm — Pierre Sautarel (@FrDesouche) December 1, 2018

French interior minister Christophe Castaner reacted to the escalation of violence saying he has been monitoring the situation closely and has no “taboo” over declaring a national state of emergency should the need arise.

Castaner also told French media that authorities had identified at least 3,000 suspects connected with the various arson attacks and violence that took place.

“There are people who come from the extreme right, the extreme left, but there are also many people who came to Paris to vandalise,” Castaner said, and added that they were an “extreme minority, an insurrectional minority, they want to break everything, destroy everything. They are basically hooligans.”

The word “insurrection” was also used by populist Rassemblement National (National Rally) leader Marine Le Pen, who took to Twitter to condemn the violence, saying: “The casseurs triggered an insurrectionary situation in Paris. Dear Gilets Jaunes, you should leave the premises in order to allow the forces of the order to intervene and overcome these abuses.”

Ms Le Pen also called on President Emmanuel Macron to meet with leaders of the opposition parties in order to work on a resolution to the violence upon his return from the G20 summit in Argentina.

“I ask the President of the Republic, who has let this situation get worse in an incredible way, to receive the leaders of opposition political parties, at the forefront of which is the Rassemblement National, upon his return from Argentina,” she wrote.-------------------Brazil’s Populist Minister Slams Climatism as ‘Marxist Ideology’





Brazil’s new foreign minister said this week that his “main mission” in office is to combat the Marxist ideology of the preceding regime, including “climate alarmism” and abortion.

Ernesto Araújo, named as future foreign minister by president-elect Jair Bolsonaro, said that putting an end to Marxist ideology in Brazil’s foreign policy is “the main mission that the president has entrusted to me” in an op-ed published in the Gazeta do Povo newspaper.

According to Araújo, the Workers’ Party (PT), which governed Brazil for 13 years under Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff, turned the country’s foreign policy into a tool to spread Marxist ideology, and the mission of the new administration is to dismantle that apparatus.

Among the Marxist elements pushed by the PT, Araújo cited climatic alarmism, knee-jerk third-worldism, adherence to abortionist policies in international forums, and the destruction of the identity of peoples through mass immigration.

“All these are elements of the PT’s ideology, that is, of Marxism,” he said.

“To cure a disease it is not enough to say that we detest it; it is necessary to know its causes and manifestations, its strategies and its disguises,” the minister said.

In an earlier blogpost, the future minister went into greater depth regarding his understanding of the aims of the climate change lobby.

“This dogma has served to justify increasing the regulatory power of states over the economy and the power of international institutions over national states and their populations,” Araújo wrote in mid-October, “as well as to stifle economic growth in democratic capitalist countries and foster China’s growth.”

Araújo, who is a vocal supporter of U.S. President Donald Trump, said that China is the enemy of the West and that the globalist movement wants to transfer the economic power of the West to that country.

The minister’s words this week coincided with an announcement by the president-elect that Brazil has withdrawn its offer to host the United Nations COP25 climate summit in 2019, citing “current fiscal and budgetary constraints” as well as “the transition process for the newly elected administration.”

Greenpeace reacted strongly to the news, saying that the new government had “shamed the climate agenda” and lost an opportunity to position Brazil as a “climate leader” on the international stage.

In a statement this week, Greenpeace went on to call President-elect Bolsonaro, who will take office on January 1, an “environmental threat,” while lamenting that the new foreign minister Ernesto Araújo “believes that climate change is no more than a major international conspiracy, something that functions as an agenda of global domination.”

Araújo has said the environmental cause, which originally was concerned with the “conservation of nature and the responsible use of resources,” was hijacked by the left as a way to manipulate nations and peoples.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsrome-------------------Brazil’s Populist Minister Slams Climatism as ‘Marxist Ideology’





Brazil’s new foreign minister said this week that his “main mission” in office is to combat the Marxist ideology of the preceding regime, including “climate alarmism” and abortion.

Ernesto Araújo, named as future foreign minister by president-elect Jair Bolsonaro, said that putting an end to Marxist ideology in Brazil’s foreign policy is “the main mission that the president has entrusted to me” in an op-ed published in the Gazeta do Povo newspaper.

According to Araújo, the Workers’ Party (PT), which governed Brazil for 13 years under Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff, turned the country’s foreign policy into a tool to spread Marxist ideology, and the mission of the new administration is to dismantle that apparatus.

Among the Marxist elements pushed by the PT, Araújo cited climatic alarmism, knee-jerk third-worldism, adherence to abortionist policies in international forums, and the destruction of the identity of peoples through mass immigration.

“All these are elements of the PT’s ideology, that is, of Marxism,” he said.

“To cure a disease it is not enough to say that we detest it; it is necessary to know its causes and manifestations, its strategies and its disguises,” the minister said.

In an earlier blogpost, the future minister went into greater depth regarding his understanding of the aims of the climate change lobby.

“This dogma has served to justify increasing the regulatory power of states over the economy and the power of international institutions over national states and their populations,” Araújo wrote in mid-October, “as well as to stifle economic growth in democratic capitalist countries and foster China’s growth.”

Araújo, who is a vocal supporter of U.S. President Donald Trump, said that China is the enemy of the West and that the globalist movement wants to transfer the economic power of the West to that country.

The minister’s words this week coincided with an announcement by the president-elect that Brazil has withdrawn its offer to host the United Nations COP25 climate summit in 2019, citing “current fiscal and budgetary constraints” as well as “the transition process for the newly elected administration.”

Greenpeace reacted strongly to the news, saying that the new government had “shamed the climate agenda” and lost an opportunity to position Brazil as a “climate leader” on the international stage.

In a statement this week, Greenpeace went on to call President-elect Bolsonaro, who will take office on January 1, an “environmental threat,” while lamenting that the new foreign minister Ernesto Araújo “believes that climate change is no more than a major international conspiracy, something that functions as an agenda of global domination.”

Araújo has said the environmental cause, which originally was concerned with the “conservation of nature and the responsible use of resources,” was hijacked by the left as a way to manipulate nations and peoples.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsrome-------------------Listen to the Radio Show Archive





Alex Jones - 2018-Dec-02, Sunday (MP3) Sunday December 02, 2018 to be added...

Alex Jones - 2018-Nov-30, Friday (MP3) Friday November 30, 2018 to be added...

Alex Jones - 2018-Nov-29, Thursday (MP3) Thursday November 29, 2018 President Trump’s former personal attorney Michael Cohen pleaded guilty about lying to Congress. The plea is part of a dealCohen reached with special counsel Robert Mueller. Cohen has spent over 70 hours with Mueller’s team since his earlier plea deal with federal prosecutors. Also, Trump is reportedly canceling his meeting with Russian President Putin due to the Ukraine crisis. Joining today’s show is the founder of Unite America First Will Johnson explaining the desperate attempt by Democrats to derail Trump and further Mueller’s agenda.

Alex Jones - 2018-Nov-28, Wednesday (MP3) Wednesday November 28, 2018 President Trump slammed special counsel Robert Mueller after major players made it known that Mueller’s “gang of Dems” are “ viciously” telling witnesses to lie to get relief. Also, lawmakers are gridlocked over wall funding as the deadline nears and the crisis on the border escalates. Furthermore, members of the caravan have claimed to be “victims of repression” and have crafted a list of demands that includes an accelerated asylum process. Joining today’s show is conservative trailblazer Faith Goldy drawing powerful parallels between Europe’s migrant crisis and America’s caravan chaos

Alex Jones - 2018-Nov-27, Tuesday (MP3) Tuesday November 27, 2018 WikiLeaks denies the Guardian's claim that former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort held secret talks with persecuted journalist Julian Assange. The media group blasts the Guardian as a “serial fabricator.” Also, tensions escalate between Ukraine and Russia and the legacy media doubles-down on false narratives regarding the invading migrant caravan. Joining today’s show is Pastor Rodney Howard-Browne explaining what coming perils Americans will face against the deep state.

Alex Jones - 2018-Nov-26, Monday (MP3) Monday November 26, 2018 President Trump warned Mexico that he will “permanently” close the border if the migrant caravan is not deported. The ultimatum came after a skirmish between U.S. border agents and migrants. Meanwhile, the left is still pushing the narrative that the caravan either doesn’t exist or poses no threat. Across the Atlantic, Ukraine eyes authorizing martial law to “strengthen Ukraine's defense capabilities” after Russia seized three ships. Joining today’s show is southern border expert Brandon Darby sharing cutting-edge intel on the chaos seen with the migrant caravan on the border.-------------------Watch Live: The Death of George H.W. Bush Is Symbolic of Collapse of NWO World Govt Project





Alex Jones breaks down how the passing of former president George Herbert Walker Bush marks the death of his New World Order world government ambition, shared with the likes of Henry Kissinger, David Rockefeller, and George Soros.-------------------Dem Congresswoman Admits Helping Caravan Members Enter US After They Were Denied Entry





It’s hardly a secret that leftists love the idea of open borders and letting illegal immigration run amok.

It’s also a well-established fact that Democrats typically harbor a seething hatred of all things related to President Donald Trump and will stoop to any depth to needle the president.

But it takes a certain level of brazenness, even for a leftist Democrat, to boast about personally helping and bringing members of the migrant caravan across the border just to stick it to Trump.

I was able to successfully assist 5 asylum seekers – 2 unaccompanied minors, a mother and her 9 year old child, and a young man with a serious medical condition – into the United States. — Rep. Pramila Jayapal (@RepJayapal) December 2, 2018

U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, a Washington Democrat, apparently has that kind of brazenness.

The 53-year-old Jayapal bragged on her Twitter account about helping migrants get into the United States after they had previously been denied entry.

Read more-------------------All ‘SNL’ Wants for Christmas Is for Mueller to Arrest Trump, ‘Only Other Option Is a Coup’





In what was supposedly a “comedy” act to close out the latest episode of NBC’s Saturday Night Live, the female cast members got together to sing their rendition of Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas Is You”.

But the person they had their eye on was Special Counsel Robert Mueller, or, at least a report that would put Trump in jail. Because, according to the SNL cast, “the only other option is a coup. Straight Africa.”

Aside from comedian Leslie Jones saying she was going to bake “rophies into cookies because this year, I’m going to get [Santa]” (What happened to #MeToo?), the song was comprised of the deranged ramblings of loony liberals.

“This needs to be done by Christmas. I need a fricking ounce of cheer. I just really want my life back. Oh my god, it’s been two years,” the group sang, switching back and forth between them.

Read more-------------------Roger Stone Vows Never To Testify Against Trump: ‘Where Is The Crime? I Engaged In Politics’





President Donald Trump’s longtime ally Roger Stone — in the crosshairs of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election — refuted any illegal behavior in his pre-election activities, asking “where is the crime?”

In an interview on ABC News’ “This Week,” Stone declared “I engaged in politics.”

“Where is the crime?” he asked. “I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the WikiLeaks Twitter feed and send a Google news alert for [WikiLeaks founder] Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosure when they came as politics.”

Read more-------------------Comey Strikes Deal Regarding Congressional Testimony





Former FBI Director James Comey ended a legal battle with House Republicans on Sunday, announcing that he will testify behind closed doors on Capitol Hill this week after receiving assurances that a transcript of his interview will be released to the public.

Comey’s announcement brings to an end a short-lived standoff over the former FBI chief’s congressional testimony. Republicans on the House Judiciary and House Oversight and Government Reform Committees subpoenaed Comey on Nov. 21 to appear for a closed-door deposition on Dec. 3 to face questions about his handling of the Clinton email and Trump-Russia collusion investigations.

Comey sought a public hearing, claiming in a court filing Thursday that he feared “selective leaks” from Republicans. But in an emergency court hearing Friday, Comey’s attorneys acknowledged that the request to quash the congressional subpoena was unorthodox, suggesting the motion had little chance of succeeding.

Comey wrote Sunday on Twitter that he was “grateful for a fair hearing from judge.”

He said that he will testify “in the dark” but that Republicans had agreed he is “free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours.”

“This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” he wrote.

Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony. — James Comey (@Comey) December 2, 2018

Republicans argued against Comey’s motion to block the subpoena, noting that other current and former FBI officials have testified privately during the course of the committees’ investigation of the Clinton and Trump probes.

“Sixteen other people have testified under oath in the same setting that we’re asking him to do it and his claim that he needs to do it in public is, in my opinion, a farce,” Virginia GOP Rep. Bob Goodlatte, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, told Fox News on Friday.

Republicans have accused the FBI and Justice Department of going easy on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and of abusing the surveillance court process to obtain spy warrants against former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.

Republican lawyers said they wanted to secure Comey’s testimony ahead of a report that the committees are planning to release in the coming weeks.

“If Mr. Comey’s deposition were to be stayed, it would have a profound impact on the Committee’s investigation and prevent the Committee from providing a full accounting of DOJ’s actions in 2016. The Committee intends to issue a joint report (together with [House Oversight Committee]) before the end of the 115th Congress – i.e., in a few short weeks,” lawyers for the House Judiciary Committee wrote in a court filing Friday.-------------------Welcome to the ALEX JONES INFOWARS STORE





-------------------Watch Live: The Death of George H.W. Bush Is Symbolic of Collapse of NWO World Govt Project





Alex Jones breaks down how the passing of former president George Herbert Walker Bush marks the death of his New World Order world government ambition, shared with the likes of Henry Kissinger, David Rockefeller, and George Soros.-------------------Dem Congresswoman Admits Helping Caravan Members Enter US After They Were Denied Entry





It’s hardly a secret that leftists love the idea of open borders and letting illegal immigration run amok.

It’s also a well-established fact that Democrats typically harbor a seething hatred of all things related to President Donald Trump and will stoop to any depth to needle the president.

But it takes a certain level of brazenness, even for a leftist Democrat, to boast about personally helping and bringing members of the migrant caravan across the border just to stick it to Trump.

I was able to successfully assist 5 asylum seekers – 2 unaccompanied minors, a mother and her 9 year old child, and a young man with a serious medical condition – into the United States. — Rep. Pramila Jayapal (@RepJayapal) December 2, 2018

U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, a Washington Democrat, apparently has that kind of brazenness.

The 53-year-old Jayapal bragged on her Twitter account about helping migrants get into the United States after they had previously been denied entry.

Read more-------------------All ‘SNL’ Wants for Christmas Is for Mueller to Arrest Trump, ‘Only Other Option Is a Coup’





In what was supposedly a “comedy” act to close out the latest episode of NBC’s Saturday Night Live, the female cast members got together to sing their rendition of Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas Is You”.

But the person they had their eye on was Special Counsel Robert Mueller, or, at least a report that would put Trump in jail. Because, according to the SNL cast, “the only other option is a coup. Straight Africa.”

Aside from comedian Leslie Jones saying she was going to bake “rophies into cookies because this year, I’m going to get [Santa]” (What happened to #MeToo?), the song was comprised of the deranged ramblings of loony liberals.

“This needs to be done by Christmas. I need a fricking ounce of cheer. I just really want my life back. Oh my god, it’s been two years,” the group sang, switching back and forth between them.

Read more-------------------Comey Strikes Deal Regarding Congressional Testimony





Former FBI Director James Comey ended a legal battle with House Republicans on Sunday, announcing that he will testify behind closed doors on Capitol Hill this week after receiving assurances that a transcript of his interview will be released to the public.

Comey’s announcement brings to an end a short-lived standoff over the former FBI chief’s congressional testimony. Republicans on the House Judiciary and House Oversight and Government Reform Committees subpoenaed Comey on Nov. 21 to appear for a closed-door deposition on Dec. 3 to face questions about his handling of the Clinton email and Trump-Russia collusion investigations.

Comey sought a public hearing, claiming in a court filing Thursday that he feared “selective leaks” from Republicans. But in an emergency court hearing Friday, Comey’s attorneys acknowledged that the request to quash the congressional subpoena was unorthodox, suggesting the motion had little chance of succeeding.

Comey wrote Sunday on Twitter that he was “grateful for a fair hearing from judge.”

He said that he will testify “in the dark” but that Republicans had agreed he is “free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours.”

“This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” he wrote.

Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony. — James Comey (@Comey) December 2, 2018

Republicans argued against Comey’s motion to block the subpoena, noting that other current and former FBI officials have testified privately during the course of the committees’ investigation of the Clinton and Trump probes.

“Sixteen other people have testified under oath in the same setting that we’re asking him to do it and his claim that he needs to do it in public is, in my opinion, a farce,” Virginia GOP Rep. Bob Goodlatte, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, told Fox News on Friday.

Republicans have accused the FBI and Justice Department of going easy on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and of abusing the surveillance court process to obtain spy warrants against former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.

Republican lawyers said they wanted to secure Comey’s testimony ahead of a report that the committees are planning to release in the coming weeks.

“If Mr. Comey’s deposition were to be stayed, it would have a profound impact on the Committee’s investigation and prevent the Committee from providing a full accounting of DOJ’s actions in 2016. The Committee intends to issue a joint report (together with [House Oversight Committee]) before the end of the 115th Congress – i.e., in a few short weeks,” lawyers for the House Judiciary Committee wrote in a court filing Friday.-------------------Shock Video: Migrants Land Boat On California Beach 100 Miles From Border





Residents of a California beach community witnessed a surprising incident as a small boat packed with illegal aliens made landfall. The migrants made their way to the beach resort located about 100 miles from the Mexican border in a small panga boat.

Officials with the Laguna Beach Police Department tweeted a video showing the boat making landfall early Thursday morning and 13 illegal aliens running on shore. Police say that U.S. Border Patrol agents responded quickly and took custody of seven of the migrants and two suspected human smugglers who were allegedly waiting to pick up the migrants, the Orange County Register reported.

Laguna Beach PD, Marine Safety, and @CBP are still in the area searching on foot for additional panga boat passengers after the obtained video shows 13 individuals fleeing from the boat. Currently, 7 are detained. pic.twitter.com/ETvZ2gAr4f — Laguna Beach Police (@LagunaBeachPD) November 29, 2018

Laguna Beach Emergency Operations Coordinator Jordan Villwock told the local newspaper, “They (local residents) saw two men running for the cliffs. Officers were on scene in five minutes and immediately detained the two men who had ditched their life vests on the sand.”

Read more

Newswars reports from Tijuana:

-------------------Shock Video: Migrants Land Boat On California Beach 100 Miles From Border





Residents of a California beach community witnessed a surprising incident as a small boat packed with illegal aliens made landfall. The migrants made their way to the beach resort located about 100 miles from the Mexican border in a small panga boat.

Officials with the Laguna Beach Police Department tweeted a video showing the boat making landfall early Thursday morning and 13 illegal aliens running on shore. Police say that U.S. Border Patrol agents responded quickly and took custody of seven of the migrants and two suspected human smugglers who were allegedly waiting to pick up the migrants, the Orange County Register reported.

Laguna Beach PD, Marine Safety, and @CBP are still in the area searching on foot for additional panga boat passengers after the obtained video shows 13 individuals fleeing from the boat. Currently, 7 are detained. pic.twitter.com/ETvZ2gAr4f — Laguna Beach Police (@LagunaBeachPD) November 29, 2018

Laguna Beach Emergency Operations Coordinator Jordan Villwock told the local newspaper, “They (local residents) saw two men running for the cliffs. Officers were on scene in five minutes and immediately detained the two men who had ditched their life vests on the sand.”

Read more

Newswars reports from Tijuana:

-------------------Florida Election Official Brenda Snipes Rescinds Resignation After Governor Moves To Suspend Her





Broward County Supervisor of Elections Brenda Snipes has rescinded her resignation after Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) moved to immediately suspend her.

Snipes’s attorney announced Saturday that the elections chief would fight Scott’s order, and that the governor intended to embarrass and “tarnish [Snipes’s] record.”

“Dr. Snipes hereby rescinds her resignation,” attorney Burnadette Norris-Weeks said, according to NBC News.

Snipes originally announced resignation last month after Republicans in the state accused her of illegal activity during the tense recounts of the Florida Senate and gubernatorial races, and was set to step down in January.

Scott, who is leaving his post to become senator, issued an executive order on Friday ordering Snipes to be immediately removed and replaced over “widespread issues with voting.”

Read more-------------------Florida Election Official Brenda Snipes Rescinds Resignation After Governor Moves To Suspend Her





Broward County Supervisor of Elections Brenda Snipes has rescinded her resignation after Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) moved to immediately suspend her.

Snipes’s attorney announced Saturday that the elections chief would fight Scott’s order, and that the governor intended to embarrass and “tarnish [Snipes’s] record.”

“Dr. Snipes hereby rescinds her resignation,” attorney Burnadette Norris-Weeks said, according to NBC News.

Snipes originally announced resignation last month after Republicans in the state accused her of illegal activity during the tense recounts of the Florida Senate and gubernatorial races, and was set to step down in January.

Scott, who is leaving his post to become senator, issued an executive order on Friday ordering Snipes to be immediately removed and replaced over “widespread issues with voting.”

Read more-------------------Tijuana Shuts Down Migrant Caravan Shelter





MEXICO CITY — The city government of Tijuana announced Saturday that it has closed down a migrant shelter at a sports complex close to the U.S. border that once held about 6,000 Central Americans who hope to get into the U.S.

Officials said all the migrants were being moved to a former concert venue much farther from the border. The city said in a statement the sports complex shelter was closed because of “bad sanitary conditions.”

Experts had expressed concerns about unsanitary conditions that had developed at the partly flooded sports complex, where the migrants had been packed into a space adequate for half their numbers. Mud, lice infestations and respiratory infections were rampant.

Read more-------------------Tijuana Shuts Down Migrant Caravan Shelter





MEXICO CITY — The city government of Tijuana announced Saturday that it has closed down a migrant shelter at a sports complex close to the U.S. border that once held about 6,000 Central Americans who hope to get into the U.S.

Officials said all the migrants were being moved to a former concert venue much farther from the border. The city said in a statement the sports complex shelter was closed because of “bad sanitary conditions.”

Experts had expressed concerns about unsanitary conditions that had developed at the partly flooded sports complex, where the migrants had been packed into a space adequate for half their numbers. Mud, lice infestations and respiratory infections were rampant.

Read more-------------------France In Chaos: Macron Considers State Of Emergency Amid ‘Yellow Vest’ Protests, ‘All Options’ Considered





French President Emmanuel Macron will hold an emergency meeting of senior ministers on Sunday following the worst unrest Paris has seen in a decade on Saturday. Government spokesman Benjamin Griveaux told France’s Europe 1 radio that a state of emergency may be imposed to prevent “serious outbursts of violence” after thousands of masked “Yellow Vest” protesters fought with police, and set fires to cars, houses and banks.

The Jeu de Paume – one of best art galleries in Paris – is on fire. A mob is storming through the Tuleries Garden. pic.twitter.com/pHaPJxI3Yt — Peter Allen (@peterallenparis) December 1, 2018

Griveaux said that around 1,000 and 1,500 protesters joined Saturday’s demonstrations “only to fight with the police, to break and loot,” and that the violent element “have nothing to do with the yellow vests” (aside from wearing yellow vests?).

Demonstrators on Saturday were filmed destroing a police van and other vehicles, while other videos showed burning cars and police firing tear gas to break up the protests.

The reported size of the protest has varied between 36,000 and 75,000 yellow vests, while last week saw over 110,000 protesters at the Champs-Elysées in central Paris. Over 400 arrests were made and 113 injured in Saturday’s unrest which began three weeks ago over a hike in diesel taxes, but has grown to a general protest of Macron and his government.

Macron’s popularity rating has plummeted to just 26%, while opinion polls for the 2019 parliament elections predict that right-wing Marine Le Pen’s Nationall Rally party will be level – or far ahead – from Macron’s La République En Marche.-------------------France In Chaos: Macron Considers State Of Emergency Amid ‘Yellow Vest’ Protests, ‘All Options’ Considered





French President Emmanuel Macron will hold an emergency meeting of senior ministers on Sunday following the worst unrest Paris has seen in a decade on Saturday. Government spokesman Benjamin Griveaux told France’s Europe 1 radio that a state of emergency may be imposed to prevent “serious outbursts of violence” after thousands of masked “Yellow Vest” protesters fought with police, and set fires to cars, houses and banks.

The Jeu de Paume – one of best art galleries in Paris – is on fire. A mob is storming through the Tuleries Garden. pic.twitter.com/pHaPJxI3Yt — Peter Allen (@peterallenparis) December 1, 2018

Griveaux said that around 1,000 and 1,500 protesters joined Saturday’s demonstrations “only to fight with the police, to break and loot,” and that the violent element “have nothing to do with the yellow vests” (aside from wearing yellow vests?).

Demonstrators on Saturday were filmed destroing a police van and other vehicles, while other videos showed burning cars and police firing tear gas to break up the protests.

The reported size of the protest has varied between 36,000 and 75,000 yellow vests, while last week saw over 110,000 protesters at the Champs-Elysées in central Paris. Over 400 arrests were made and 113 injured in Saturday’s unrest which began three weeks ago over a hike in diesel taxes, but has grown to a general protest of Macron and his government.

Macron’s popularity rating has plummeted to just 26%, while opinion polls for the 2019 parliament elections predict that right-wing Marine Le Pen’s Nationall Rally party will be level – or far ahead – from Macron’s La République En Marche.-------------------Elizabeth Warren 2020 Preview: Donald Trump ‘Cozies Up to White Nationalists,’ Inspires ‘Domestic Right-Wing Terrorism’





Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) spoke at American University Washington College of Law in a speech billed as foreign policy-focused; however, it included criticism of President Donald Trump and his policies and claimed he promotes white nationalism and encourages “domestic right-wing terrorism.”

“He cozies up to white nationalists,” Warren said on Thursday. “He undermines the free press and incites violence against journalists.”

Warren said Trump’s election poses a threat to democracy.

“The 2016 election provided a stark reminder that we must remain vigilant and fight for our democracy every single day,” Warren said. “That starts with protecting our elections and democratic processes, and making it clear that there will be severe consequences for those – foreign or domestic – who meddle, hack, or undermine them.”

“It means ensuring a meaningful opportunity for every American citizen to vote,” Warren said. “And it means fighting for equal justice and protection under the law for all.”

“It also requires us to speak out against hateful rhetoric that fuels domestic terrorism of all kinds, whether in San Bernadino or Charleston, Orlando or Charlottesville, Fort Hood or Pittsburgh,” Warren said. “We must speak plainly about all of these incidents.”

Read more-------------------Elizabeth Warren 2020 Preview: Donald Trump ‘Cozies Up to White Nationalists,’ Inspires ‘Domestic Right-Wing Terrorism’





Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) spoke at American University Washington College of Law in a speech billed as foreign policy-focused; however, it included criticism of President Donald Trump and his policies and claimed he promotes white nationalism and encourages “domestic right-wing terrorism.”

“He cozies up to white nationalists,” Warren said on Thursday. “He undermines the free press and incites violence against journalists.”

Warren said Trump’s election poses a threat to democracy.

“The 2016 election provided a stark reminder that we must remain vigilant and fight for our democracy every single day,” Warren said. “That starts with protecting our elections and democratic processes, and making it clear that there will be severe consequences for those – foreign or domestic – who meddle, hack, or undermine them.”

“It means ensuring a meaningful opportunity for every American citizen to vote,” Warren said. “And it means fighting for equal justice and protection under the law for all.”

“It also requires us to speak out against hateful rhetoric that fuels domestic terrorism of all kinds, whether in San Bernadino or Charleston, Orlando or Charlottesville, Fort Hood or Pittsburgh,” Warren said. “We must speak plainly about all of these incidents.”

Read more-------------------Pew: U.S. Illegal Immigrant Population Hits Lowest Level in a Decade





The total number of illegal immigrants in the U.S. has fallen to its lowest level in more than a decade, the Pew Research Center reported this week.

“There were 10.7 million unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. in 2016, down from a peak of 12.2 million in 2007,” Pew said, citing government estimates.

Pew found that there has been a “sharp decrease in the number of Mexicans entering the country without authorization,” although around half of illegal immigrants in the U.S. — 5.4 million — are Mexican. The number of unauthorized Mexican immigrants living in the U.S. has declined by 1.5 million since 2007.

Central America, on the other hand, is the only region accounting for more U.S. unauthorized immigrants in 2016 than in 2007, Pew said.

Between 2007 and 2016, the number of unauthorized immigrants from Central America increased by 375,000, and the 1.85 million illegal immigrants from Central America in 2016 came chiefly from three countries: El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.

Read more-------------------Pew: U.S. Illegal Immigrant Population Hits Lowest Level in a Decade





The total number of illegal immigrants in the U.S. has fallen to its lowest level in more than a decade, the Pew Research Center reported this week.

“There were 10.7 million unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. in 2016, down from a peak of 12.2 million in 2007,” Pew said, citing government estimates.

Pew found that there has been a “sharp decrease in the number of Mexicans entering the country without authorization,” although around half of illegal immigrants in the U.S. — 5.4 million — are Mexican. The number of unauthorized Mexican immigrants living in the U.S. has declined by 1.5 million since 2007.

Central America, on the other hand, is the only region accounting for more U.S. unauthorized immigrants in 2016 than in 2007, Pew said.

Between 2007 and 2016, the number of unauthorized immigrants from Central America increased by 375,000, and the 1.85 million illegal immigrants from Central America in 2016 came chiefly from three countries: El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.

Read more-------------------MS-13 Gang Member Busted in AZ Says He Used Migrant Caravan for Cover





Tucson Sector Border Patrol agents arrested an MS-13 gang member who said he traveled through Mexico with the migrant caravan.

Agents assigned to the Ajo Station apprehended an illegal alien on November 27 after he crossed the border from Mexico. The agents transported the migrant to the station for a biometric background investigation, according to information obtained from Tucson Sector Border Patrol officials.

During the investigation, the agents identified the man as 30-year-old Wuilson Lazo-Ramos, a Honduran national. Agents reported the man has tattoos indicating membership in the Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) gang. He also has a conviction from a court in Maricopa County, Arizona. The court sentenced Lazo to 30 days in jail and two years probation on the weapons offense.

Officials reported that Lazo claimed he traveled through the “dangerous parts of Mexico” with the migrant caravan “for his safety.” He said he left the group at the border and crossed illegally on his own because “he has a criminal record” in the U.S., officials stated.

Lazo is now in federal custody pending possible prosecution for immigration violations.

Read more-------------------MS-13 Gang Member Busted in AZ Says He Used Migrant Caravan for Cover





Tucson Sector Border Patrol agents arrested an MS-13 gang member who said he traveled through Mexico with the migrant caravan.

Agents assigned to the Ajo Station apprehended an illegal alien on November 27 after he crossed the border from Mexico. The agents transported the migrant to the station for a biometric background investigation, according to information obtained from Tucson Sector Border Patrol officials.

During the investigation, the agents identified the man as 30-year-old Wuilson Lazo-Ramos, a Honduran national. Agents reported the man has tattoos indicating membership in the Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) gang. He also has a conviction from a court in Maricopa County, Arizona. The court sentenced Lazo to 30 days in jail and two years probation on the weapons offense.

Officials reported that Lazo claimed he traveled through the “dangerous parts of Mexico” with the migrant caravan “for his safety.” He said he left the group at the border and crossed illegally on his own because “he has a criminal record” in the U.S., officials stated.

Lazo is now in federal custody pending possible prosecution for immigration violations.

Read more-------------------Trump Declares Wednesday ‘National Day Of Mourning’ For President Bush; Stock Market To Close





To honor the death of America’s 41st President George H W Bush, President Trump has declared Wednesday to be a ‘National Day of Mourning’ for his predecessor, who died last night at age 94.

This is the first time since Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 that the stock market will be closed on a regular trading day. A spokesman for the New York Stock Exchange confirmed that markets would close in keeping with tradition.

President Trump declares December 5 as a National Day of Mourning after the death of President George H. W. Bush; the stock market will he closed in observance. https://t.co/tSIvQIMZ6M — CNBC Now (@CNBCnow) December 1, 2018

President Trump said he plans to hold a press conference to share progress made at the Argentina summit and to honor the fallen president after the funeral. The market was closed on Jan. 2, 2007 to honor the death of Gerald Ford when he passed away, resulting in a rare four-day halt in trading, according to CNN Money.

I was very much looking forward to having a press conference just prior to leaving Argentina because we have had such great success in our dealing with various countries and their leaders at the G20…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 1, 2018

….However, out of respect for the Bush Family and former President George H.W. Bush we will wait until after the funeral to have a press conference. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 1, 2018

The flag at the White House was ordered lowered to half mast in Bush’s honor.-------------------Trump Declares Wednesday ‘National Day Of Mourning’ For President Bush; Stock Market To Close





To honor the death of America’s 41st President George H W Bush, President Trump has declared Wednesday to be a ‘National Day of Mourning’ for his predecessor, who died last night at age 94.

This is the first time since Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 that the stock market will be closed on a regular trading day. A spokesman for the New York Stock Exchange confirmed that markets would close in keeping with tradition.

President Trump declares December 5 as a National Day of Mourning after the death of President George H. W. Bush; the stock market will he closed in observance. https://t.co/tSIvQIMZ6M — CNBC Now (@CNBCnow) December 1, 2018

President Trump said he plans to hold a press conference to share progress made at the Argentina summit and to honor the fallen president after the funeral. The market was closed on Jan. 2, 2007 to honor the death of Gerald Ford when he passed away, resulting in a rare four-day halt in trading, according to CNN Money.

I was very much looking forward to having a press conference just prior to leaving Argentina because we have had such great success in our dealing with various countries and their leaders at the G20…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 1, 2018

….However, out of respect for the Bush Family and former President George H.W. Bush we will wait until after the funeral to have a press conference. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 1, 2018

The flag at the White House was ordered lowered to half mast in Bush’s honor.-------------------Scientists Urge World To Share DNA In Centralized Database “For Your Protection”





Between the ever-encroaching eye of Big Brother, the imminent events of pre-crime AI, the exposure of tech behemoth privacy contempt, and the inevitable ‘hack’ of any and everything online, it is perhaps understandable that your average joe is more than a little nervous – no matter how romantic the idea of discovering you are 1/1024th native American – to hand over their DNA to the next tom, dick or dotcom wanting to tell you if you’re lactose intolerant or when you’ll get diabetes.

But, luckily for all of us skeptics, the clever people have a solution to our plebian ignorance.

As Bloomberg reports, a group of medical researchers have a counter-intuitive proposal for shielding people’s most intimate personal data from prying eyes.

Share more of it, they say. A lot more of it .

Bloomberg’s Kristen Brown writes that in a new paper published in the journal Science on Thursday, researchers suggest that the best way to protect genetic information might be for all Americans to deposit their data in a universal, nationwide DNA database.

Concerns about who can gain access to genetic information gathered by consumer genetic-testing websites has been on the climb since April, when police made an arrest in a decades-old serial-murder case in California. To ensnare the alleged Golden State Killer, investigators trawled an open-source database popular with genealogy hobbyists to search for relatives of possible suspects. Police found matches, and then got their man. The California case made clear that consumers have little control over where their genetic information — and by extension, that of their family members — can wind up, a potential privacy nightmare. “Currently, law enforcement already has potential access to millions of people’s data,” said James Hazel, a researcher at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee, and the lead author of the paper. “A universal system would be much easier to regulate.”

A recent study concluded that only 2 percent of the population needs to have done a DNA test for virtually everyone’s genetic makeup to be exposed.

“This is a very provocative proposal,” Hazel said, “But it all comes down to spurring a debate about the current system.”

If enhancing privacy by creating a giant database of people’s DNA sounds counterintuitive, the group’s point is that it’s already too late to prevent mass exposure.

Remember, you have nothing to fear from this ultimate invasion of privacy if you have done nothing wrong…-------------------Scientists Urge World To Share DNA In Centralized Database “For Your Protection”





Between the ever-encroaching eye of Big Brother, the imminent events of pre-crime AI, the exposure of tech behemoth privacy contempt, and the inevitable ‘hack’ of any and everything online, it is perhaps understandable that your average joe is more than a little nervous – no matter how romantic the idea of discovering you are 1/1024th native American – to hand over their DNA to the next tom, dick or dotcom wanting to tell you if you’re lactose intolerant or when you’ll get diabetes.

But, luckily for all of us skeptics, the clever people have a solution to our plebian ignorance.

As Bloomberg reports, a group of medical researchers have a counter-intuitive proposal for shielding people’s most intimate personal data from prying eyes.

Share more of it, they say. A lot more of it .

Bloomberg’s Kristen Brown writes that in a new paper published in the journal Science on Thursday, researchers suggest that the best way to protect genetic information might be for all Americans to deposit their data in a universal, nationwide DNA database.

Concerns about who can gain access to genetic information gathered by consumer genetic-testing websites has been on the climb since April, when police made an arrest in a decades-old serial-murder case in California. To ensnare the alleged Golden State Killer, investigators trawled an open-source database popular with genealogy hobbyists to search for relatives of possible suspects. Police found matches, and then got their man. The California case made clear that consumers have little control over where their genetic information — and by extension, that of their family members — can wind up, a potential privacy nightmare. “Currently, law enforcement already has potential access to millions of people’s data,” said James Hazel, a researcher at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee, and the lead author of the paper. “A universal system would be much easier to regulate.”

A recent study concluded that only 2 percent of the population needs to have done a DNA test for virtually everyone’s genetic makeup to be exposed.

“This is a very provocative proposal,” Hazel said, “But it all comes down to spurring a debate about the current system.”

If enhancing privacy by creating a giant database of people’s DNA sounds counterintuitive, the group’s point is that it’s already too late to prevent mass exposure.

Remember, you have nothing to fear from this ultimate invasion of privacy if you have done nothing wrong…-------------------CIA Intercept Reveals Saudi Crown Prince Sent 11 Messages To Head Of Khashoggi Hit Team Hours Before Murder





It has been nearly two months to the day since Jamal Khashoggi walked into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul hoping to retrieve papers needed to marry his Turkish fiance – only to be killed and butchered by a 15-man Saudi murder squad.

In the intervening weeks, the Saudis have suffered remarkably little blowback (considering that the uproar elicited by Khashoggi’s murder nearly triggered a global diplomatic crisis): To date, the US and Canada have levied sanctions against a 17 Saudis suspected of participating or orchestrating Khashoggi’s murder, and a handful of countries who don’t sell arms to Saudi Arabia have said they will stop selling arms to Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile, both Canada and the US have balked at similar measures because they would inevitably kill jobs.

Clearly concerned about the flagging interest in holding Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman accountable for his suspected role in ordering the killing, the CIA has decided to pick up where Turkey left off.

Last week, somebody inside the agency leaked a preliminary report to the Washington Post detailing the agency’s determination that MbS had ordered the killing. And on Saturday morning, the Wall Street Journal published the latest (illegal) intelligence agency leak when it reported on the contents of intercepts revealing that during the hours after and immediately before the killing, MbS had exchanged 11 messages with Saud al-Qahtani, a close aide to the prince who is believed to have supervised the murder squad.

Notably, the WSJ report followed a vote in the Senate earlier this week to open debate on a measure to withdraw US support for Saudi Arabia’s proxy war in Yemen (the kingdom’s brutal bombing campaigns have reportedly resulted in the deaths of tens of thousands of innocents and created one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world). The Trump Administration has opposed the bill, arguing that it would damage its relationship with a crucial geopolitical ally while also killing jobs in the Military-Industrial Complex. While we wouldn’t go as far as to suggest that the CIA is deliberately trying to undermine the administration, the timing of this leak is certainly curious.

Al-Qahtani has shouldered most of the consequences of Khashoggi’s kingdom (he has been fired from the kingdom’s intelligence service and targeted by US and Canadian sanctions) largely due to his reputation as MbS’s enforcer. Al-Qahtani has attacked dissidents whom MbS views as a threat, as well as orchestrated their detention and torture (and not just inside the Riyadh Ritz Carlton).

According to the CIA intercepts, MbS also discussed taking steps to silence Khashoggi if he continued to speak out (with talk of “making arrangements” to lure him somewhere outside Saudi Arabia).

The Saudi leader also in August 2017 had told associates that if his efforts to persuade Mr. Khashoggi to return to Saudi Arabia weren’t successful, “we could possibly lure him outside Saudi Arabia and make arrangements,” according to the assessment, a communication that it states “seems to foreshadow the Saudi operation launched against Khashoggi.” […] The previously unreported excerpts reviewed by the Journal state that the CIA has “medium-to-high confidence” that Prince Mohammed “personally targeted” Khashoggi and “probably ordered his death.” It added: “To be clear, we lack direct reporting of the Crown Prince issuing a kill order.” The electronic messages sent by Prince Mohammed were to Saud al-Qahtani, according to the CIA. Mr. Qahtani supervised the 15-man team that killed Mr. Khashoggi and, during the same period, was also in direct communication with the team’s leader in Istanbul, the assessment says. The content of the messages between Prince Mohammed and Mr. Qahtani isn’t known, the document says. It doesn’t say in what form the messages were sent.

Other details seemingly culled from the CIA’s internal reports also found their way into the WSJ story, including a detailed accounting of the agency’s reasons for suspecting MbS’s involvement.

The judgment on Prince Mohammed’s likely culpability, the CIA assessment says, is based on the crown prince’s personal focus on Mr. Khashoggi, his tight control over the Saudi operatives sent to Istanbul to kill him, “and his authorizing some of the same operators to violently target other opponents.” Mr. Qahtani has led Prince Mohammed’s efforts to crack down on dissent internally and abroad. He is one of the 17 sanctioned by the Treasury. […] The highly classified CIA assessment says that the Saudi team sent to kill Mr. Khashoggi was assembled from Prince Mohammed’s top security units in the Royal Guard and in an organization run by Mr. Qahtani, the Center for Studies and Media Affairs at the Royal Court, the Saudi royal court’s media department. “We assess it is highly unlikely this team of operators…carried out the operation without Muhammed bin Salman’s authorization,” it says. The document says that Mr. Qahtani “explicitly requested the Crown Prince’s permission when he pursued other sensitive operations in 2015, which reflects the Crown Prince’s command and control expectations.”

Some can argue that these findings don’t necessarily contradict the administration’s position. Trump, National Security Advisor John Bolton, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and even Defense Secretary James Mattis have said that the intelligence agency’s findings aren’t definitive – which, by the CIA’s own admission, is true.

As Trump recently said about MbS’s involvement, “Maybe he did, maybe he didn’t.” While this chilling exercise in realpolitik might make many Americans uncomfortable, it’s worth remembering that Canada has also resisted cancelling arms deals with the kingdom, despite its government’s scathing rhetoric. And Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan only stands to benefit from a rift between Saudi Arabia and the US (it would weaken one of his biggest regional rivals, while potentially leading to warmer relations with the US).-------------------CIA Intercept Reveals Saudi Crown Prince Sent 11 Messages To Head Of Khashoggi Hit Team Hours Before Murder





It has been nearly two months to the day since Jamal Khashoggi walked into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul hoping to retrieve papers needed to marry his Turkish fiance – only to be killed and butchered by a 15-man Saudi murder squad.

In the intervening weeks, the Saudis have suffered remarkably little blowback (considering that the uproar elicited by Khashoggi’s murder nearly triggered a global diplomatic crisis): To date, the US and Canada have levied sanctions against a 17 Saudis suspected of participating or orchestrating Khashoggi’s murder, and a handful of countries who don’t sell arms to Saudi Arabia have said they will stop selling arms to Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile, both Canada and the US have balked at similar measures because they would inevitably kill jobs.

Clearly concerned about the flagging interest in holding Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman accountable for his suspected role in ordering the killing, the CIA has decided to pick up where Turkey left off.

Last week, somebody inside the agency leaked a preliminary report to the Washington Post detailing the agency’s determination that MbS had ordered the killing. And on Saturday morning, the Wall Street Journal published the latest (illegal) intelligence agency leak when it reported on the contents of intercepts revealing that during the hours after and immediately before the killing, MbS had exchanged 11 messages with Saud al-Qahtani, a close aide to the prince who is believed to have supervised the murder squad.

Notably, the WSJ report followed a vote in the Senate earlier this week to open debate on a measure to withdraw US support for Saudi Arabia’s proxy war in Yemen (the kingdom’s brutal bombing campaigns have reportedly resulted in the deaths of tens of thousands of innocents and created one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world). The Trump Administration has opposed the bill, arguing that it would damage its relationship with a crucial geopolitical ally while also killing jobs in the Military-Industrial Complex. While we wouldn’t go as far as to suggest that the CIA is deliberately trying to undermine the administration, the timing of this leak is certainly curious.

Al-Qahtani has shouldered most of the consequences of Khashoggi’s kingdom (he has been fired from the kingdom’s intelligence service and targeted by US and Canadian sanctions) largely due to his reputation as MbS’s enforcer. Al-Qahtani has attacked dissidents whom MbS views as a threat, as well as orchestrated their detention and torture (and not just inside the Riyadh Ritz Carlton).

According to the CIA intercepts, MbS also discussed taking steps to silence Khashoggi if he continued to speak out (with talk of “making arrangements” to lure him somewhere outside Saudi Arabia).

The Saudi leader also in August 2017 had told associates that if his efforts to persuade Mr. Khashoggi to return to Saudi Arabia weren’t successful, “we could possibly lure him outside Saudi Arabia and make arrangements,” according to the assessment, a communication that it states “seems to foreshadow the Saudi operation launched against Khashoggi.” […] The previously unreported excerpts reviewed by the Journal state that the CIA has “medium-to-high confidence” that Prince Mohammed “personally targeted” Khashoggi and “probably ordered his death.” It added: “To be clear, we lack direct reporting of the Crown Prince issuing a kill order.” The electronic messages sent by Prince Mohammed were to Saud al-Qahtani, according to the CIA. Mr. Qahtani supervised the 15-man team that killed Mr. Khashoggi and, during the same period, was also in direct communication with the team’s leader in Istanbul, the assessment says. The content of the messages between Prince Mohammed and Mr. Qahtani isn’t known, the document says. It doesn’t say in what form the messages were sent.

Other details seemingly culled from the CIA’s internal reports also found their way into the WSJ story, including a detailed accounting of the agency’s reasons for suspecting MbS’s involvement.

The judgment on Prince Mohammed’s likely culpability, the CIA assessment says, is based on the crown prince’s personal focus on Mr. Khashoggi, his tight control over the Saudi operatives sent to Istanbul to kill him, “and his authorizing some of the same operators to violently target other opponents.” Mr. Qahtani has led Prince Mohammed’s efforts to crack down on dissent internally and abroad. He is one of the 17 sanctioned by the Treasury. […] The highly classified CIA assessment says that the Saudi team sent to kill Mr. Khashoggi was assembled from Prince Mohammed’s top security units in the Royal Guard and in an organization run by Mr. Qahtani, the Center for Studies and Media Affairs at the Royal Court, the Saudi royal court’s media department. “We assess it is highly unlikely this team of operators…carried out the operation without Muhammed bin Salman’s authorization,” it says. The document says that Mr. Qahtani “explicitly requested the Crown Prince’s permission when he pursued other sensitive operations in 2015, which reflects the Crown Prince’s command and control expectations.”

Some can argue that these findings don’t necessarily contradict the administration’s position. Trump, National Security Advisor John Bolton, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and even Defense Secretary James Mattis have said that the intelligence agency’s findings aren’t definitive – which, by the CIA’s own admission, is true.

As Trump recently said about MbS’s involvement, “Maybe he did, maybe he didn’t.” While this chilling exercise in realpolitik might make many Americans uncomfortable, it’s worth remembering that Canada has also resisted cancelling arms deals with the kingdom, despite its government’s scathing rhetoric. And Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan only stands to benefit from a rift between Saudi Arabia and the US (it would weaken one of his biggest regional rivals, while potentially leading to warmer relations with the US).-------------------Baby It’s Cold Outside pulled by radio station, citing #MeToo





It’s a Christmas classic probably being played in shops and radio stations all over the world.

But a radio station in Cleveland, Ohio has decided to remove Baby It’s Cold Outside from its playlist following complaints from listeners.

Local media report that listeners said the song was inappropriate and at odds with the #MeToo movement.

But a poll on the station’s Facebook page showed a majority of respondents did not want the song banned.

﻿

Glenn Anderson, a host at the Star 102 station, blogged that although the song was written in a different era, the lyrics felt “manipulative and wrong”.

“The world we live in is extra sensitive now, and people get easily offended, but in a world where #MeToo has finally given women the voice they deserve, the song has no place.”

Read more-------------------Baby It’s Cold Outside pulled by radio station, citing #MeToo





It’s a Christmas classic probably being played in shops and radio stations all over the world.

But a radio station in Cleveland, Ohio has decided to remove Baby It’s Cold Outside from its playlist following complaints from listeners.

Local media report that listeners said the song was inappropriate and at odds with the #MeToo movement.

But a poll on the station’s Facebook page showed a majority of respondents did not want the song banned.

﻿

Glenn Anderson, a host at the Star 102 station, blogged that although the song was written in a different era, the lyrics felt “manipulative and wrong”.

“The world we live in is extra sensitive now, and people get easily offended, but in a world where #MeToo has finally given women the voice they deserve, the song has no place.”

Read more-------------------Socialist Losers Given The Wheel Of The Democratic Party





It only took 24 hours for the smug Democrats and Mockingbird Media to circle their wagons after the Honduran caravan stormed the border and border patrol responded with non-lethal force.

Potential 2020 presidential hopeful Beto O’Rourke weighed in, claiming, “It should tell us something about her home country that a mother is willing to travel 2,000 miles with her 4-month-old son to come here. It should tell us something about our country that we only respond to this desperate need once she is at our border.”

Beto either doesn’t do his homework or chooses to ignore the billions in aid USAID has given to Honduras over the years. In 2017 alone the US gave $181 million to Honduras. And we know for a fact due to the courageous efforts of Project Veritas, that Beto’s campaign aided the caravan.-------------------Socialist Losers Given The Wheel Of The Democratic Party





It only took 24 hours for the smug Democrats and Mockingbird Media to circle their wagons after the Honduran caravan stormed the border and border patrol responded with non-lethal force.

Potential 2020 presidential hopeful Beto O’Rourke weighed in, claiming, “It should tell us something about her home country that a mother is willing to travel 2,000 miles with her 4-month-old son to come here. It should tell us something about our country that we only respond to this desperate need once she is at our border.”

Beto either doesn’t do his homework or chooses to ignore the billions in aid USAID has given to Honduras over the years. In 2017 alone the US gave $181 million to Honduras. And we know for a fact due to the courageous efforts of Project Veritas, that Beto’s campaign aided the caravan.-------------------Update: Tijuana Successfully Stalled Migrant Caravan From Storming Border





Newswars reporter Greg Reese is in Tijuana, Mexico, to give live updates on reports that the caravan is readying another siege of the border as Mexican authorities attempt to bus them further away from the border.-------------------Update: Tijuana Successfully Stalled Migrant Caravan From Storming Border





Newswars reporter Greg Reese is in Tijuana, Mexico, to give live updates on reports that the caravan is readying another siege of the border as Mexican authorities attempt to bus them further away from the border.-------------------Americans Respond To Alex Jones’ Censorship And Twitter Bias Towards Conservatives





Owen Shroyer takes to the streets of Austin, Texas to find out how average American citizens feel about big techs’ political censorship campaign that targets conservative voices across the United States.-------------------Americans Respond To Alex Jones’ Censorship And Twitter Bias Towards Conservatives





Owen Shroyer takes to the streets of Austin, Texas to find out how average American citizens feel about big techs’ political censorship campaign that targets conservative voices across the United States.-------------------“Now or Never”: Why the Migrant Caravan Plans Second Border Strike Saturday





Find out why the migrant caravan has now decided to make their run for America.

BREAKING: Migrant Caravan Set To Storm The US Border Due To Mexican Eviction



Mirror

-------------------“Now or Never”: Why the Migrant Caravan Plans Second Border Strike Saturday





Find out why the migrant caravan has now decided to make their run for America.

BREAKING: Migrant Caravan Set To Storm The US Border Due To Mexican Eviction



Mirror

-------------------Landlord Pressures Student to Move Out Over Legally-Owned Guns





A landlord is pressuring a student to move out after her roommates searched her room without permission and felt “uncomfortable” over the legally-owned firearms they found.

The roommates searched the victim’s room when she wasn’t home, according to 24-year-old Harvard graduate student Leyla Pirnie.

“A few weeks ago, I came back to my apartment from a weekend trip and was confronted by one of my roommates who asked if I had guns in the house,” she told the Washington Free Beacon. “After being told far too many lies to count, my roommates finally admitted that they searched my closet, under my bed, and all of my drawers in pursuit of finding my guns.”

Understandably, Pirnie wanted to know what prompted her six roommates to invade her privacy.

“When I asked them why they were in my room to begin with, they each came up with completely contradicting stories (none of which made any sense), but one comment struck me in particular: ‘We saw that you had a MAGA hat and come on, you’re from Alabama… so we just kind of assumed that you had something,'” Pirnie said.

The situation escalated after Pirnie’s roommates informed their landlord.

“My landlord’s e-mail, though carefully crafted, showed tremendous prejudice against my right to legally have firearms,” Pirnie said.

After discovering the guns, the roommates asked their landlord to verify if Pirnie was in compliance with applicable gun laws.

Although she passed the police inspection, the landlord sided with the roommates and said she should find another place to live.

“Since it’s clear that Leyla wants to keep her firearms, it would be best for all parties if she finds another place to live,” he said.

Then, the landlord said Pirnie had to leave or she’d have to pay her roommates’ rent due to them moving out.

“If the other roommates were to move out, Leyla would need to find roommates to share the place or foot the entire $6000+ monthly rent herself,” he said. “Obviously it would be much easier for the others to stay and just fill one room (and I’m confident—were this to happen—that the remaining housemates will release Leyla from any further responsibility under the lease) and that’s why I proposed what I did.”

The ordeal has left Pirnie feeling her privacy and rights have been violated.

“Not only is this a blatant violation of my privacy, but it’s also a violation of my rights.”

Correspondingly, Infowars has reported on the left’s never-ending campaign to disarm Americans.

Earlier in 2018, Dick’s Sporting Goods lobbied Congress for a gun control bill in a decision that prompted a major gunmaker to end its business relationship with the popular retail chain.

Also, a California congressman suggested using nukes against Americans who wouldn’t agree to gun confiscation.-------------------Landlord Pressures Student to Move Out Over Legally-Owned Guns





A landlord is pressuring a student to move out after her roommates searched her room without permission and felt “uncomfortable” over the legally-owned firearms they found.

The roommates searched the victim’s room when she wasn’t home, according to 24-year-old Harvard graduate student Leyla Pirnie.

“A few weeks ago, I came back to my apartment from a weekend trip and was confronted by one of my roommates who asked if I had guns in the house,” she told the Washington Free Beacon. “After being told far too many lies to count, my roommates finally admitted that they searched my closet, under my bed, and all of my drawers in pursuit of finding my guns.”

Understandably, Pirnie wanted to know what prompted her six roommates to invade her privacy.

“When I asked them why they were in my room to begin with, they each came up with completely contradicting stories (none of which made any sense), but one comment struck me in particular: ‘We saw that you had a MAGA hat and come on, you’re from Alabama… so we just kind of assumed that you had something,'” Pirnie said.

The situation escalated after Pirnie’s roommates informed their landlord.

“My landlord’s e-mail, though carefully crafted, showed tremendous prejudice against my right to legally have firearms,” Pirnie said.

After discovering the guns, the roommates asked their landlord to verify if Pirnie was in compliance with applicable gun laws.

Although she passed the police inspection, the landlord sided with the roommates and said she should find another place to live.

“Since it’s clear that Leyla wants to keep her firearms, it would be best for all parties if she finds another place to live,” he said.

Then, the landlord said Pirnie had to leave or she’d have to pay her roommates’ rent due to them moving out.

“If the other roommates were to move out, Leyla would need to find roommates to share the place or foot the entire $6000+ monthly rent herself,” he said. “Obviously it would be much easier for the others to stay and just fill one room (and I’m confident—were this to happen—that the remaining housemates will release Leyla from any further responsibility under the lease) and that’s why I proposed what I did.”

The ordeal has left Pirnie feeling her privacy and rights have been violated.

“Not only is this a blatant violation of my privacy, but it’s also a violation of my rights.”

Correspondingly, Infowars has reported on the left’s never-ending campaign to disarm Americans.

Earlier in 2018, Dick’s Sporting Goods lobbied Congress for a gun control bill in a decision that prompted a major gunmaker to end its business relationship with the popular retail chain.

Also, a California congressman suggested using nukes against Americans who wouldn’t agree to gun confiscation.-------------------Far-Left Group Trying To Agitate Caravan At U.S. Border





Human rights groups in Tijuana are sounding the alarm about a far left organization that is trying to agitate members of the migrant caravan into rushing the U.S. border again.

The group By Any Means Necessary (BAMN) is calling for all migrants to gather on Saturday morning at one of the shelters and then to make their way to the U.S. border, where they will demand it be opened for everyone or they will “shut it down.”

In addition to posting the information on their website, BAMN members have taken to social media encouraging other protesters and members of the migrant caravan.

BAMN STATEMENT ON THE CARAVAN: Our Freedom March is almost over! Our goal of freedom is within sight and we must march on in order to achieve it! pic.twitter.com/Qcd1LHLMYi — Adam Lerman (@AdamBAMN) November 26, 2018

Some of the pamphlets being distributed on social media by BAMN appear to show images of the violent clashes between caravan members and Mexican authorities that took place last month on that country’s southern border with Guatemala.

Read more-------------------Far-Left Group Trying To Agitate Caravan At U.S. Border





Human rights groups in Tijuana are sounding the alarm about a far left organization that is trying to agitate members of the migrant caravan into rushing the U.S. border again.

The group By Any Means Necessary (BAMN) is calling for all migrants to gather on Saturday morning at one of the shelters and then to make their way to the U.S. border, where they will demand it be opened for everyone or they will “shut it down.”

In addition to posting the information on their website, BAMN members have taken to social media encouraging other protesters and members of the migrant caravan.

BAMN STATEMENT ON THE CARAVAN: Our Freedom March is almost over! Our goal of freedom is within sight and we must march on in order to achieve it! pic.twitter.com/Qcd1LHLMYi — Adam Lerman (@AdamBAMN) November 26, 2018

Some of the pamphlets being distributed on social media by BAMN appear to show images of the violent clashes between caravan members and Mexican authorities that took place last month on that country’s southern border with Guatemala.

Read more-------------------NPR Falsely Accuses Don Jr. Of Lying In Senate Testimony





NPR published a report Friday asserting that Donald Trump Jr.’s testimony to the Senate about efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow were inconsistent with Michael Cohen’s claims about the same project in his plea deal Thursday.

A transcript from Trump Jr.’s Sept. 7, 2017 testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee shows that he claimed the Trump Organization ceased pursuing a deal to build Trump Tower in Moscow in by the end of 2014, NPR reported.

The news organization quoted Trump Jr. as saying that the project “faded away” by “the end of ’14.”

“But not in 2015 or 2016?” Trump Jr. was asked.

“Certainly not ’16,” the president’s son replied. “There was never a definitive end to it. It just died of deal fatigue.”

NPR asserted that the testimony would pose a problem for Trump Jr. since attorney Cohen said in his plea agreement with the special counsel’s office that he continued negotiating the building through June 2016. He also said he briefed President Donald Trump and his children that year before the deal fell through.

NPR issued a lengthy editor’s note to the article five hours after publication but did not retract the piece.

I guess this is as close as I’ll get to an apology where yet another “bombshell” bites the dust. Pro tip: don’t just rush to publish anything thinking that it’s the got ya you so desperately want it to be. CNN has the market cornered on that… let them own it 👍 https://t.co/mtmXp6O8GW — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) November 30, 2018

As The Federalist’s Sean Davis noted on Twitter, NPR left out parts of Trump Jr.’s testimony where the real estate executive acknowledged that Trump Tower Moscow was being discussed into 2016.

“It’s been reported that in late 2015 or 2016 when now President Trump was running for office the Trump Organization was pursuing a plan to develop a massive Trump Tower in Moscow. Is that accurate?” Trump Jr. was asked.

Trump Jr.’s statements about work on a Trump Tower Moscow that ended in 2014 referred to negotiations with Aras Agalarov, a Russian real estate mogul who partnered with Trump to host the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow in 2013.

The Trumps and Agalarovs attempted to build a Trump Tower facility, but the deal petered out.

Felix Sater, a businessman with links to Cohen and Russian officials, tried to make a Trump Tower Moscow happen in 2015.

Sater and Cohen worked on the project through June 2016.

Cohen pleaded guilty to the special counsel for lying to Congress in his own testimony in 2017 when he claimed that he stopped pursuing the deal with Sater in January 2016. He also lied about the extent of his meetings with Trump and his children about the project.

This is not the first time that Trump Jr. has been the victim of false reporting. Trump Jr. received an email on Sept. 4, 2016 that included a link to WikiLeaks documents that had yet to be made public, CNN reported on Dec. 8, 2017. But CNN got the date wrong. The email was actually dated Sept. 14, 2016, a day after WikiLeaks had published the documents referred to in the email.-------------------NPR Falsely Accuses Don Jr. Of Lying In Senate Testimony





NPR published a report Friday asserting that Donald Trump Jr.’s testimony to the Senate about efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow were inconsistent with Michael Cohen’s claims about the same project in his plea deal Thursday.

A transcript from Trump Jr.’s Sept. 7, 2017 testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee shows that he claimed the Trump Organization ceased pursuing a deal to build Trump Tower in Moscow in by the end of 2014, NPR reported.

The news organization quoted Trump Jr. as saying that the project “faded away” by “the end of ’14.”

“But not in 2015 or 2016?” Trump Jr. was asked.

“Certainly not ’16,” the president’s son replied. “There was never a definitive end to it. It just died of deal fatigue.”

NPR asserted that the testimony would pose a problem for Trump Jr. since attorney Cohen said in his plea agreement with the special counsel’s office that he continued negotiating the building through June 2016. He also said he briefed President Donald Trump and his children that year before the deal fell through.

NPR issued a lengthy editor’s note to the article five hours after publication but did not retract the piece.

I guess this is as close as I’ll get to an apology where yet another “bombshell” bites the dust. Pro tip: don’t just rush to publish anything thinking that it’s the got ya you so desperately want it to be. CNN has the market cornered on that… let them own it 👍 https://t.co/mtmXp6O8GW — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) November 30, 2018

As The Federalist’s Sean Davis noted on Twitter, NPR left out parts of Trump Jr.’s testimony where the real estate executive acknowledged that Trump Tower Moscow was being discussed into 2016.

“It’s been reported that in late 2015 or 2016 when now President Trump was running for office the Trump Organization was pursuing a plan to develop a massive Trump Tower in Moscow. Is that accurate?” Trump Jr. was asked.

Trump Jr.’s statements about work on a Trump Tower Moscow that ended in 2014 referred to negotiations with Aras Agalarov, a Russian real estate mogul who partnered with Trump to host the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow in 2013.

The Trumps and Agalarovs attempted to build a Trump Tower facility, but the deal petered out.

Felix Sater, a businessman with links to Cohen and Russian officials, tried to make a Trump Tower Moscow happen in 2015.

Sater and Cohen worked on the project through June 2016.

Cohen pleaded guilty to the special counsel for lying to Congress in his own testimony in 2017 when he claimed that he stopped pursuing the deal with Sater in January 2016. He also lied about the extent of his meetings with Trump and his children about the project.

This is not the first time that Trump Jr. has been the victim of false reporting. Trump Jr. received an email on Sept. 4, 2016 that included a link to WikiLeaks documents that had yet to be made public, CNN reported on Dec. 8, 2017. But CNN got the date wrong. The email was actually dated Sept. 14, 2016, a day after WikiLeaks had published the documents referred to in the email.-------------------Parkland Father Lauds George H.W. Bush’s Resignation From NRA In 1995





A father who lost a child during the Parkland, Fla., school shooting earlier this year praised the late President George H.W. Bush on Saturday for resigning from the National Rifle Association (NRA) in 1995.

Fred Guttenberg took to Twitter following news that the former president died on Friday at the age of 94.

“A lot will be written today about President George Bush. Whether you agreed or disagreed with him, most would think that he always served with honor and decency,” Guttenberg wrote. “This resignation letter that he wrote resigning his NRA membership is only one example.”

A lot will be written today about President George Bush. Whether you agreed or disagreed with him, most would think that he always served with honor and decency. This resignation letter that he wrote resigning his NRA membership is only one example.https://t.co/liV3qKn6n9 — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) December 1, 2018

Guttenberg’s 14-year-old daughter, Jaime, was one of 17 people killed during the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Valentine’s Day. He has since become a vocal critic of the NRA and advocate for gun control.

Read more-------------------Parkland Father Lauds George H.W. Bush’s Resignation From NRA In 1995





A father who lost a child during the Parkland, Fla., school shooting earlier this year praised the late President George H.W. Bush on Saturday for resigning from the National Rifle Association (NRA) in 1995.

Fred Guttenberg took to Twitter following news that the former president died on Friday at the age of 94.

“A lot will be written today about President George Bush. Whether you agreed or disagreed with him, most would think that he always served with honor and decency,” Guttenberg wrote. “This resignation letter that he wrote resigning his NRA membership is only one example.”

A lot will be written today about President George Bush. Whether you agreed or disagreed with him, most would think that he always served with honor and decency. This resignation letter that he wrote resigning his NRA membership is only one example.https://t.co/liV3qKn6n9 — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) December 1, 2018

Guttenberg’s 14-year-old daughter, Jaime, was one of 17 people killed during the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Valentine’s Day. He has since become a vocal critic of the NRA and advocate for gun control.

Read more-------------------Mass Arrests In Paris As ‘Yellow Vest’ Protests Enter Violent Third Week, Spread To Belgium





French police deployed tear gas after thousands of “yellow vest” activists converged on the the Champs Élysées for a third week of protests against President Emmanuel Macron and his government. Over 122 arrests have been made.

Chanting “On the way to Macron’s resignation,” the protesters were hit with tear gas as riot police struggled to contain Saturday’s violence, which saw cars set on fire, paint thrown on officers, and several injuries. Protesters attempted to breach barricades blocking the path to the presidential palace on Saturday morning; “lighting fires, throwing rocks and spraying police officers with vivid yellow paint.”

Live Feed:



Riot police fire tear gas and stun grenades at "yellow vest" protesters in Paris. It's the third weekend of mall demonstrations which began against rising fuel prices. Follow the latest from France and the rest of the world here: https://t.co/ZG9yBQyrqG pic.twitter.com/DzARcJ08GV — Sky News (@SkyNews) December 1, 2018

Protesters were hit with a water cannon for the second week in a row:

J'ai été blessé par un tir de la police pic.twitter.com/0xhwilXc1c — Lucas Léger (@lucas_rtfrance) December 1, 2018

Originally formed to protest rising fuel prices, the “yellow vest” protesters have evolved into a wider demonstration against President Emmanuel Macron’s government in recent weeks. After French interior minister Christophe Castaner initially blamed the “far right” for the protests, the interior ministry has now said the participants are “extreme-right and far-left demonstrators,” according to The Guardian.

The gilets jaunes (yellow vests) protests are posing one of the most sustained challenges yet to Emmanuel Macron’s leadership. Hundreds of thousands of protesters have barricaded roads and blockaded toll-booths and fuel depots across France over the past two weeks, complaining that Macron’s pro-business tax policy was unfair and that people on low-income jobs could not make ends meet. Motorists initially demonstrated against a fuel tax increase two weeks ago, but the protesters, who have no leader and have largely organised themselves online, now have much broader demands and further actions have followed. -The Guardian

There have been claims that “more radical groups” have infiltrated the grassroots movement, while Castaner tweeted that “1,500 troublemakers” had overtaken what started out as “200 peaceful demonstrators.” The replies to his tweet suggest people aren’t buying it…

200 manifestants pacifiques sur les Champs-Élysées.

1500 perturbateurs à l’extérieur du périmètre venus pour en découdre.

Nos forces de l'ordre répondent présent et repoussent les casseurs : déjà 39 interpellations. #1erDécembre — Christophe Castaner (@CCastaner) December 1, 2018

Two people have been killed in car accidents and hundreds injured since the riots began on November 17.

Meanwhile the protests have spread to Brussels, Belgium where Yellow Vest activists burned police vans after the police fired a water cannon at the crowd.

VIDEO: Protesters in Belgium burned police vans after officers fired water cannon to disperse violent members of the "yellow vest" movement which spilled over from France pic.twitter.com/ksh2M0rJVp — AFP news agency (@AFP) November 30, 2018-------------------Mass Arrests In Paris As ‘Yellow Vest’ Protests Enter Violent Third Week, Spread To Belgium





French police deployed tear gas after thousands of “yellow vest” activists converged on the the Champs Élysées for a third week of protests against President Emmanuel Macron and his government. Over 122 arrests have been made.

Chanting “On the way to Macron’s resignation,” the protesters were hit with tear gas as riot police struggled to contain Saturday’s violence, which saw cars set on fire, paint thrown on officers, and several injuries. Protesters attempted to breach barricades blocking the path to the presidential palace on Saturday morning; “lighting fires, throwing rocks and spraying police officers with vivid yellow paint.”

Live Feed:



Riot police fire tear gas and stun grenades at "yellow vest" protesters in Paris. It's the third weekend of mall demonstrations which began against rising fuel prices. Follow the latest from France and the rest of the world here: https://t.co/ZG9yBQyrqG pic.twitter.com/DzARcJ08GV — Sky News (@SkyNews) December 1, 2018

Protesters were hit with a water cannon for the second week in a row:

J'ai été blessé par un tir de la police pic.twitter.com/0xhwilXc1c — Lucas Léger (@lucas_rtfrance) December 1, 2018

Originally formed to protest rising fuel prices, the “yellow vest” protesters have evolved into a wider demonstration against President Emmanuel Macron’s government in recent weeks. After French interior minister Christophe Castaner initially blamed the “far right” for the protests, the interior ministry has now said the participants are “extreme-right and far-left demonstrators,” according to The Guardian.

The gilets jaunes (yellow vests) protests are posing one of the most sustained challenges yet to Emmanuel Macron’s leadership. Hundreds of thousands of protesters have barricaded roads and blockaded toll-booths and fuel depots across France over the past two weeks, complaining that Macron’s pro-business tax policy was unfair and that people on low-income jobs could not make ends meet. Motorists initially demonstrated against a fuel tax increase two weeks ago, but the protesters, who have no leader and have largely organised themselves online, now have much broader demands and further actions have followed. -The Guardian

There have been claims that “more radical groups” have infiltrated the grassroots movement, while Castaner tweeted that “1,500 troublemakers” had overtaken what started out as “200 peaceful demonstrators.” The replies to his tweet suggest people aren’t buying it…

200 manifestants pacifiques sur les Champs-Élysées.

1500 perturbateurs à l’extérieur du périmètre venus pour en découdre.

Nos forces de l'ordre répondent présent et repoussent les casseurs : déjà 39 interpellations. #1erDécembre — Christophe Castaner (@CCastaner) December 1, 2018

Two people have been killed in car accidents and hundreds injured since the riots began on November 17.

Meanwhile the protests have spread to Brussels, Belgium where Yellow Vest activists burned police vans after the police fired a water cannon at the crowd.

VIDEO: Protesters in Belgium burned police vans after officers fired water cannon to disperse violent members of the "yellow vest" movement which spilled over from France pic.twitter.com/ksh2M0rJVp — AFP news agency (@AFP) November 30, 2018-------------------Breaking: Migrant Caravan Set To Storm US Border Saturday Due To Mexico Eviction





The Mexican government has asked the migrant caravan to move to a new location, further from the U.S. border and away from Tijuana’s tourist area, but a majority of the group refused to leave and instead look to make a run for America over the weekend.

Also



Mirror

-------------------Breaking: Migrant Caravan Set To Storm US Border Saturday Due To Mexico Eviction





The Mexican government has asked the migrant caravan to move to a new location, further from the U.S. border and away from Tijuana’s tourist area, but a majority of the group refused to leave and instead look to make a run for America over the weekend.

Also



Mirror

-------------------Ocasio-Cortez Likens Her Election Win to Historic Moon Landing





Congresswoman-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez sees her recent election victory as a watershed moment in world history akin to landing on the moon.

The New York Democrat told reporters on Friday that once again the U.S. is “at the brink, at the cusp of an abyss” that requires citizens of a special kind of mettle. She says that such an elite group exists — and that she and other newly elected Democrats are in it.

“This is not just about a Green New Deal, this is about a new deal for the United States of America,” the 29-year-old said at a “Sunrise Movement” press conference in Washington.

Read more-------------------Ocasio-Cortez Likens Her Election Win to Historic Moon Landing





Congresswoman-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez sees her recent election victory as a watershed moment in world history akin to landing on the moon.

The New York Democrat told reporters on Friday that once again the U.S. is “at the brink, at the cusp of an abyss” that requires citizens of a special kind of mettle. She says that such an elite group exists — and that she and other newly elected Democrats are in it.

“This is not just about a Green New Deal, this is about a new deal for the United States of America,” the 29-year-old said at a “Sunrise Movement” press conference in Washington.

Read more-------------------Putin High-Fives Saudi Prince While Macron Threatens





Russian President Vladimir Putin was seen giving a high-five to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during the G20 Summit in Argentina on Friday.

The G20 Group summit marks the first time Prince Mohammed bin Salman met with world leaders since the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi last month.

President Trump appeared to have noticed the exchange with a displeased look.

Comment by Alex Jones: As you can see in the above screenshot, President Trump is keenly aware that Russia is trying to cut Saudi Arabia away as a critical ally both in keeping energy prices down and in technology transfers and sales. This is the real politic. The Democrat Party openly funded the Arab Spring that killed over a million people and impoverished tens of millions more in creating a giant refugee crisis threatening to bring down Europe, even today. They dehumanize those masses when it’s about their larger globalist empire, but when one person with al-Qaeda connections like Khashoggi is killed, they were then treated to crocodile tears and told that because Trump doesn’t destroy our alliance with Saudi Arabia and throw low gas prices out the window, that he’s a monster. No, they’re the monsters and Trump is just being honest with the world about where we really stand with our sovereignty and other nations’ sovereignty.

Notably, French President Emmanuel Macron didn’t extend MBS the same pleasantries as Putin due to the Khashoggi killing.

Video captured Macron belittling MBS in a private 5-minute conversation, saying “You never listen to me.”

Video of Macron and MBS chat , you can hear #France Prez saying "you never listen to me", #Saudi CP responds "I do of course listen" At G-20 today via @OKAZ_online pic.twitter.com/NRhkgBQlLb — Joyce Karam (@Joyce_Karam) November 30, 2018

MBS responded with, “Of course I do listen. Don’t worry,” before laughing in his face.

“I do worry,” Macron replies. “I am worried.”

Macron, who has a 26% approval in France over high gas prices and immigration, appears to have lost clout with world leaders as well.-------------------Putin High-Fives Saudi Prince While Macron Threatens





Russian President Vladimir Putin was seen giving a high-five to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during the G20 Summit in Argentina on Friday.

The G20 Group summit marks the first time Prince Mohammed bin Salman met with world leaders since the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi last month.

President Trump appeared to have noticed the exchange with a displeased look.

Comment by Alex Jones: As you can see in the above screenshot, President Trump is keenly aware that Russia is trying to cut Saudi Arabia away as a critical ally both in keeping energy prices down and in technology transfers and sales. This is the real politic. The Democrat Party openly funded the Arab Spring that killed over a million people and impoverished tens of millions more in creating a giant refugee crisis threatening to bring down Europe, even today. They dehumanize those masses when it’s about their larger globalist empire, but when one person with al-Qaeda connections like Khashoggi is killed, they were then treated to crocodile tears and told that because Trump doesn’t destroy our alliance with Saudi Arabia and throw low gas prices out the window, that he’s a monster. No, they’re the monsters and Trump is just being honest with the world about where we really stand with our sovereignty and other nations’ sovereignty.

Notably, French President Emmanuel Macron didn’t extend MBS the same pleasantries as Putin due to the Khashoggi killing.

Video captured Macron belittling MBS in a private 5-minute conversation, saying “You never listen to me.”

Video of Macron and MBS chat , you can hear #France Prez saying "you never listen to me", #Saudi CP responds "I do of course listen" At G-20 today via @OKAZ_online pic.twitter.com/NRhkgBQlLb — Joyce Karam (@Joyce_Karam) November 30, 2018

MBS responded with, “Of course I do listen. Don’t worry,” before laughing in his face.

“I do worry,” Macron replies. “I am worried.”

Macron, who has a 26% approval in France over high gas prices and immigration, appears to have lost clout with world leaders as well.-------------------FBI Raids Home Of Whistleblower On Clinton Foundation, Lawyer Says





FBI agents raided the home of a recognized Department of Justice whistleblower who privately delivered documents pertaining to the Clinton Foundation and Uranium One to a government watchdog, according to the whistleblower’s attorney.

The Justice Department’s inspector general was informed that the documents show that federal officials failed to investigate potential criminal activity regarding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Clinton Foundation and Rosatom, the Russian company that purchased Uranium One, a document reviewed by The Daily Caller News Foundation alleges.

The delivered documents also show that then-FBI Director Robert Mueller failed to investigate allegations of criminal misconduct pertaining to Rosatom and to other Russian government entities attached to Uranium One, the document reviewed by TheDCNF alleges. Mueller is now the special counsel investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia during the 2016 election.

“The bureau raided my client to seize what he legally gave Congress about the Clinton Foundation and Uranium One,” the whistleblower’s lawyer, Michael Socarras, told TheDCNF, noting that he considered the FBI’s raid to be an “outrageous disregard” of whistleblower protections.

Read more-------------------FBI Raids Home Of Whistleblower On Clinton Foundation, Lawyer Says





FBI agents raided the home of a recognized Department of Justice whistleblower who privately delivered documents pertaining to the Clinton Foundation and Uranium One to a government watchdog, according to the whistleblower’s attorney.

The Justice Department’s inspector general was informed that the documents show that federal officials failed to investigate potential criminal activity regarding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Clinton Foundation and Rosatom, the Russian company that purchased Uranium One, a document reviewed by The Daily Caller News Foundation alleges.

The delivered documents also show that then-FBI Director Robert Mueller failed to investigate allegations of criminal misconduct pertaining to Rosatom and to other Russian government entities attached to Uranium One, the document reviewed by TheDCNF alleges. Mueller is now the special counsel investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia during the 2016 election.

“The bureau raided my client to seize what he legally gave Congress about the Clinton Foundation and Uranium One,” the whistleblower’s lawyer, Michael Socarras, told TheDCNF, noting that he considered the FBI’s raid to be an “outrageous disregard” of whistleblower protections.

Read more-------------------Ted Cruz Predicts ‘Anger And Rage’ May Lead To Impeachment





Republican Sen. Ted Cruz told students Thursday that Democrats might move to impeach President Donald Trump now that “some of the angriest voices on the left” have been elected to the House of Representatives.

“Today is a deeply divided time. There’s an anger. There’s a rage that I think isn’t healthy,” Cruz said during a speech at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. “I think it isn’t good for our country that the anger that we’re seeing — we saw it in this last election and we’ll see it in 2020 — that anger and rage tearing us apart corrodes our democracy.”

Cruz expressed similar sentiments in November, warning that Democrats’ anger will drive them to the polls, especially in Texas. On the weekend before the midterm election, he cautioned that their anger is so mobilizing that “they’ll crawl over broken glass” in order to try to vote Republicans out.

“How it plays out in the next two years? I don’t know,” the Texas senator continued Thursday. “We had an election where both sides were happy at some of the results. Democrats were hoping for a giant blue wave, some Republicans were hoping for a giant red wave, and we ended up with a little bit of both.”

Read more-------------------Ted Cruz Predicts ‘Anger And Rage’ May Lead To Impeachment





Republican Sen. Ted Cruz told students Thursday that Democrats might move to impeach President Donald Trump now that “some of the angriest voices on the left” have been elected to the House of Representatives.

“Today is a deeply divided time. There’s an anger. There’s a rage that I think isn’t healthy,” Cruz said during a speech at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. “I think it isn’t good for our country that the anger that we’re seeing — we saw it in this last election and we’ll see it in 2020 — that anger and rage tearing us apart corrodes our democracy.”

Cruz expressed similar sentiments in November, warning that Democrats’ anger will drive them to the polls, especially in Texas. On the weekend before the midterm election, he cautioned that their anger is so mobilizing that “they’ll crawl over broken glass” in order to try to vote Republicans out.

“How it plays out in the next two years? I don’t know,” the Texas senator continued Thursday. “We had an election where both sides were happy at some of the results. Democrats were hoping for a giant blue wave, some Republicans were hoping for a giant red wave, and we ended up with a little bit of both.”

Read more-------------------Survival Shield X-2 - Nascent Iodine





Infowars Life Survival Shield X-2 Is Available For You And Your Family!

2-Pack | 5-Pack | 10-Pack





Leading the charge in super high quality nascent iodine, the new Infowars Life Survival Shield X-2 will help boost your health beyond expectations. *



Also Available: X-2 Bio-True Selenium Combo



A Stronger Formula From 7,000 Feet Below The Surface



Derived from ancient sea salts found more than 7,000 feet below the Earth's surface, the evolution of Survival Shield is here and much stronger than our original formula.* Every drop contains 650 micrograms to keep you in prime form.

Feel the relief and strength of the next step in proprietary nascent iodine, developed using our Thermodynamic Pressure Sensitive High Energy Sound Pulse Nano-Emulsion Technology that allows for a highly unique and powerful nascent iodine that is both concentrated, and free of unwanted additives and genetically modified ingredients to make sure that your organic nascent iodine supplements are the best for your body. During our quality control phase, we screen for any harmful additives - even up to radiation.*



The Top 5 Reasons You Need Nascent Iodine



Iodine is an essential mineral that supports thyroid health and well-being for the body. *

Nascent iodine may support healthy iodine levels to supercharge cognitive functions. *

Nascent iodine may support healthy hormone levels to stabilize your vitality. *

Nascent iodine may be involved in maintaining healthy metabolism to keep you going as long as necessary.* Supplementing with pure nascent iodine may help your body reach optimal iodine levels so you don't have to reach it from impure sources.*



Survival Shield X-2 Quality



Survival Shield X-2 is manufactured in a state-licensed facility that meets federal regulatory standards, is cGMP/HACCP-compliant, and lab grade. Raw elemental iodine is a controlled substance both at a State and Federal level, and Survival Shield X-2 meets all requirements in controlling it. The licensing, approvals and regulatory documentary procedures are exacting and costly, but worth it for our consumers.



Bound forms of iodine must first be separated, clarified and purified from other binding components or impurities into a USP-grade (United States Pharmaceutical), mono-elemental iodine as certified USP resublimated iodine crystals. In this purified crystal form, iodine is a highly reactive and toxic substance. However, when the purified USP iodine crystals are subjected to a proprietary process it becomes nano-colloidalized and transforms into a form of elemental nascent iodine, also referred to as monoatomic iodine, without the addition of iodides!



Shocking Statistics About Iodine



According to the World Health Organization's Department o f Nutrition for Health and Development, iodine deficiency is a public health problem in 54 countries where impure iodine sources are plentiful.

The CDC states that iodine deficiency is one of the four major deficiency diseases in the world (Thankfully, it is easily corrected).

The 2013 USGS iodine commodity summary warns that there are no comparable substitutes for iodine that will match it's benefits.

Information published by UNICEF notes that iodine deficiency is the most avoidable cause of stunted physical and intellectual development.

What Are The Health Benefits Of Nascent Iodine?



Proper iodine levels may provide support for normal response to environmental and dietary toxins to keep your body clean and moving.*

Supports thyroid health to regulate hormone production and vitality.*

May support breast milk production and quality for new mothers.*

Why Is Survival Shield X-2 The Best Nascent Iodine Available?



Survival Shield X-2 is created from ancient salt solutions found more than 7,000 feet below the Earth's surface for maximum effect.



It is tested for radiation and other dangerous impurities by our quality control experts before being placed for sale.



It is approximately 50% stronger than our original Survival Shield formulation to bring about the greatest benefit.



It is a true glycerite of natural USP grade iodine.

The nascen t iodine in Survival Shield X-2 is not subjected to direct heat, harsh chemicals, or alcohol to keep the ingredients pure and organic.

The transformative process produces a stable product that no other brand can match, though many have tried!

Completely non-GMO certified for the most natural ingredients.

Vegan-friendly and completely non-toxic to make sure all of our supplements help create the best benefits.

It provides high elemental iodine uptake.

Contains NO inefficient iodides.

Does not sting or burn.

IMPORTANT SHIPPING INFORMATION: International Customers, please check with your country's customs office regarding the import of the products. As the buyer, you are solely responsible for any import restrictions, prohibited import items, taxes, tariffs, fees and other duties.

These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.

Testimonials represent a cross section of the range of results that appear to be typical with these products. Results may vary depending upon use and commitment.

* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your physician before using this product.

Supplement & Food Product Disclaimer: Infowars thanks you for your support of the operation. As always, we offer what we have researched and believe to be the highest quality selection of products for you and your family that have been developed along with the advisory of top doctors and experts. It is important to do your own research and consult with a qualified healthcare provider or doctor to decide what is best for you. We also know that everyone's bodies are different, and it is essential to consult with a qualified health care professional before taking products offered on this website. The information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a doctor or qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. And by purchasing any item from this store, you agree to these terms and conditions as well as understand that by using these products you are agreeing to abide by this contract. Infowars Life is not held responsible for the irresponsible use of this product.

† We make every effort to manufacture our products in, and source our ingredients from, the USA whenever possible. Our products that display the “Made in the USA” disclaimer are manufactured or assembled in the USA under strict standards but may at times contain components from foreign sources if those components are not available from a domestic source. We hold these imported ingredients to the USA's high standards of Good Manufacturing Practices.-------------------Former President George H.W. Bush dies at age 94





George Herbert Walker Bush, whose lone term as the 41st president of the United States ushered in the final days of the Cold War and perpetuated a family political dynasty that influenced American politics at both the national and state levels for decades, died Friday evening in Houston. He was 94.

Bush was the last president to have served in the military during World War II. His experience in international diplomacy served him well as he dealt with the unraveling of the Soviet Union as an oppressive superpower, and later the rise of China as a commercial behemoth and potential partner.

His wife of 73 years, Barbara Pierce Bush, died April 17, 2018, at the age of 92.

Read more-------------------Former President George H.W. Bush dies at age 94





George Herbert Walker Bush, whose lone term as the 41st president of the United States ushered in the final days of the Cold War and perpetuated a family political dynasty that influenced American politics at both the national and state levels for decades, died Friday evening in Houston. He was 94.

Bush was the last president to have served in the military during World War II. His experience in international diplomacy served him well as he dealt with the unraveling of the Soviet Union as an oppressive superpower, and later the rise of China as a commercial behemoth and potential partner.

His wife of 73 years, Barbara Pierce Bush, died April 17, 2018, at the age of 92.

Read more-------------------“It Was Anarchy” As Mag 7 Quake Rocks Anchorage; Trump Promises Federal Aid





Update II: In a tweet, President Trump said the federal government would “spare no expense” to help the people of Alaska.

To the Great people of Alaska. You have been hit hard by a “big one.” Please follow the directions of the highly trained professionals who are there to help you. Your Federal Government will spare no expense. God Bless you ALL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2018

* * *

Update: White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said President Trump has been briefed on the earthquake. Meanwhile, USGS has lifted the tsunami warning.

Alaska Governor Bill Walker has issued a disaster declaration and said he is in contact with the White House.

(1/2) After a major earthquake, I have issued a declaration of disaster & I have been in direct contact with the White House. Major General Laurie Hummel & I are now working w emergency responders to make sure Alaskans are safe. — Governor Bill Walker (@AkGovBillWalker) November 30, 2018

(2/2) From the incident command center established at Joint Base Elmendorf and Richardson we are closely monitoring reports of aftershocks and assessing damage to roads, bridges and buildings. My family is praying for yours. God bless Alaska. — Governor Bill Walker (@AkGovBillWalker) November 30, 2018

So far, there have been five significant aftershocks, and more are expected throughout the day.

This morning at about 0930 hrs., a M7.0 ten miles from Anchorage, Alaska with major aftershocks, five so far, approximately at depth of 10-20 miles down today 11/30/2018 https://t.co/HoqmGA2lBx — Bob Martin (@chaplainmartin1) November 30, 2018

Alaska Air has temporarily suspended operations at its Anchorage Airport.

Due to a significant earthquake in Anchorage, Alaska, we are temporarily suspending operations at the airport until at least 12:30pm Pacific. We will keep you updated here as well as on the Alaska Airlines Blog. https://t.co/m7heW6QgsU — Alaska Airlines (@AlaskaAir) November 30, 2018

While Alaskans are no stranger to Earthquakes (as we mentioned below, they suffer more than the other 49 states combined), it’s becoming increasingly clear that this one was different.

Growing up in Alaska, we were pretty used to earthquakes. Most lucky to make a blip on the news. This was different. From a friend: pic.twitter.com/TBdiQK6JIX — Tyson Alger (@tysonalger) November 30, 2018

* * *

A magnitude 7.0 earthquake hit Anchorage, Alaska Friday morning, prompting people living in the city to run out of their offices and hide under their desks until the tremor had passed. The US Geological Survey said the earthquake’s epicenter was located roughly 7 miles (12 kilometers) north of Anchorage, Alaska’s largest city, according to the Associated Press.

A reporter in Anchorage witnessed cracks in a 2-storey building after the quake, which was followed by smaller aftershocks, including a magnitude 5.3 and magnitude 5.7 – which sent people running for cover again. Residents were warned that more could follow throughout the day.

One witness offered a harrowing description of the quake to the AP:

“It was anarchy,” he said. “There’s no pictures left on the walls, there’s no power, there’s no fish tank left. Everything that’s not tied down is broke.”

David Harper told the AP that he was getting coffee at a store when the rumbling began and intensified into something that sounded “like the building was just going to fall apart,” sending him sprinting for the exit.

“The main thought that was going through my head as I was trying to get out the door was, ‘I want this to stop,'” he said. Harper said the quake was “significant enough that the people who were outside were actively hugging each other. You could tell that it was a bad one.”

Some context: Alaska averages 40,000 earthquakes per year, with more large quakes than the 49 other states combined. The southern part of the state is particularly vulnerable due to shifting tectonic plates. The strongest quake to ever strike the state

(Courtesy of NBC News)

Alyeska Pipeline Service said it is checking on its Alaska pipeline after the quake. A company spokeswoman said the company currently isn’t aware of any problems, according to Bloomberg. The pipeline has been shut down as a precaution.

USGS issued a tsunami warning shortly after the quake, warning people to evacuate coastal areas of the Cook Inlet and Southern Kenai Peninsula.

Alaska’s Anchorage airport said some flights were still arriving but advised that others might be canceled.

Currently some flights are arriving. Check with your airline for the most up to date information. — Anchorage Airport (@TSAIAirport) November 30, 2018

Reports of road damage have been confirmed, including International Airport Road. Use EXTREME Caution if you are driving. — Anchorage Airport (@TSAIAirport) November 30, 2018

Read more-------------------“It Was Anarchy” As Mag 7 Quake Rocks Anchorage; Trump Promises Federal Aid





Update II: In a tweet, President Trump said the federal government would “spare no expense” to help the people of Alaska.

To the Great people of Alaska. You have been hit hard by a “big one.” Please follow the directions of the highly trained professionals who are there to help you. Your Federal Government will spare no expense. God Bless you ALL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2018

* * *

Update: White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said President Trump has been briefed on the earthquake. Meanwhile, USGS has lifted the tsunami warning.

Alaska Governor Bill Walker has issued a disaster declaration and said he is in contact with the White House.

(1/2) After a major earthquake, I have issued a declaration of disaster & I have been in direct contact with the White House. Major General Laurie Hummel & I are now working w emergency responders to make sure Alaskans are safe. — Governor Bill Walker (@AkGovBillWalker) November 30, 2018

(2/2) From the incident command center established at Joint Base Elmendorf and Richardson we are closely monitoring reports of aftershocks and assessing damage to roads, bridges and buildings. My family is praying for yours. God bless Alaska. — Governor Bill Walker (@AkGovBillWalker) November 30, 2018

So far, there have been five significant aftershocks, and more are expected throughout the day.

This morning at about 0930 hrs., a M7.0 ten miles from Anchorage, Alaska with major aftershocks, five so far, approximately at depth of 10-20 miles down today 11/30/2018 https://t.co/HoqmGA2lBx — Bob Martin (@chaplainmartin1) November 30, 2018

Alaska Air has temporarily suspended operations at its Anchorage Airport.

Due to a significant earthquake in Anchorage, Alaska, we are temporarily suspending operations at the airport until at least 12:30pm Pacific. We will keep you updated here as well as on the Alaska Airlines Blog. https://t.co/m7heW6QgsU — Alaska Airlines (@AlaskaAir) November 30, 2018

While Alaskans are no stranger to Earthquakes (as we mentioned below, they suffer more than the other 49 states combined), it’s becoming increasingly clear that this one was different.

Growing up in Alaska, we were pretty used to earthquakes. Most lucky to make a blip on the news. This was different. From a friend: pic.twitter.com/TBdiQK6JIX — Tyson Alger (@tysonalger) November 30, 2018

* * *

A magnitude 7.0 earthquake hit Anchorage, Alaska Friday morning, prompting people living in the city to run out of their offices and hide under their desks until the tremor had passed. The US Geological Survey said the earthquake’s epicenter was located roughly 7 miles (12 kilometers) north of Anchorage, Alaska’s largest city, according to the Associated Press.

A reporter in Anchorage witnessed cracks in a 2-storey building after the quake, which was followed by smaller aftershocks, including a magnitude 5.3 and magnitude 5.7 – which sent people running for cover again. Residents were warned that more could follow throughout the day.

One witness offered a harrowing description of the quake to the AP:

“It was anarchy,” he said. “There’s no pictures left on the walls, there’s no power, there’s no fish tank left. Everything that’s not tied down is broke.”

David Harper told the AP that he was getting coffee at a store when the rumbling began and intensified into something that sounded “like the building was just going to fall apart,” sending him sprinting for the exit.

“The main thought that was going through my head as I was trying to get out the door was, ‘I want this to stop,'” he said. Harper said the quake was “significant enough that the people who were outside were actively hugging each other. You could tell that it was a bad one.”

Some context: Alaska averages 40,000 earthquakes per year, with more large quakes than the 49 other states combined. The southern part of the state is particularly vulnerable due to shifting tectonic plates. The strongest quake to ever strike the state

(Courtesy of NBC News)

Alyeska Pipeline Service said it is checking on its Alaska pipeline after the quake. A company spokeswoman said the company currently isn’t aware of any problems, according to Bloomberg. The pipeline has been shut down as a precaution.

USGS issued a tsunami warning shortly after the quake, warning people to evacuate coastal areas of the Cook Inlet and Southern Kenai Peninsula.

Alaska’s Anchorage airport said some flights were still arriving but advised that others might be canceled.

Currently some flights are arriving. Check with your airline for the most up to date information. — Anchorage Airport (@TSAIAirport) November 30, 2018

Reports of road damage have been confirmed, including International Airport Road. Use EXTREME Caution if you are driving. — Anchorage Airport (@TSAIAirport) November 30, 2018

Read more-------------------Bette Midler Fantasizes About Trump and His Family Hanged ‘Good and High’





Actress and Broadway star Bette Midler fantasized about President Donald Trump and his family being hanged “good and high” in a pro-Robert Mueller social media post Friday.

“Trump Trump Trump Bob Mueller’s marching, Trump Trump Trump And here is why Trump Trump Trump He’s gonna hang you Hang the fam’ly GOOD AND HIGH!” Bette Midler said.

Trump Trump Trump

Bob Mueller’s marching,

Trump Trump Trump

And here is why

Trump Trump Trump

He’s gonna hang you

Hang the fam’ly

GOOD AND HIGH! https://t.co/fHImCanqsi — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) November 30, 2018

Her post was in response to a video of Donald Trump Jr. discussing alleged business in Russia in 2011, years before his father announced his presidential run.

Bette Midler often sends hateful and unhinged political messages on her social media. She recently attacked First Lady Melania Trump, using a revealing photo from her days as a model to label her “FLOTITS.”

Read more-------------------Bette Midler Fantasizes About Trump and His Family Hanged ‘Good and High’





Actress and Broadway star Bette Midler fantasized about President Donald Trump and his family being hanged “good and high” in a pro-Robert Mueller social media post Friday.

“Trump Trump Trump Bob Mueller’s marching, Trump Trump Trump And here is why Trump Trump Trump He’s gonna hang you Hang the fam’ly GOOD AND HIGH!” Bette Midler said.

Trump Trump Trump

Bob Mueller’s marching,

Trump Trump Trump

And here is why

Trump Trump Trump

He’s gonna hang you

Hang the fam’ly

GOOD AND HIGH! https://t.co/fHImCanqsi — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) November 30, 2018

Her post was in response to a video of Donald Trump Jr. discussing alleged business in Russia in 2011, years before his father announced his presidential run.

Bette Midler often sends hateful and unhinged political messages on her social media. She recently attacked First Lady Melania Trump, using a revealing photo from her days as a model to label her “FLOTITS.”

Read more-------------------Live From New York: Laura Loomer Follow-Up





Harrison Smith joins David Knight live from New York City to follow up on Laura Loomer’s protest at Twitter’s headquarters the night before where she handcuffed herself to their front door to raise awareness about conservative censorship.-------------------Live From New York: Laura Loomer Follow-Up





Harrison Smith joins David Knight live from New York City to follow up on Laura Loomer’s protest at Twitter’s headquarters the night before where she handcuffed herself to their front door to raise awareness about conservative censorship.-------------------Handcuffed Laura Loomer Demands, “Stop the Bias of Conservatives, Jack Dorsey!”





Infowars correspondent Will Johnson breaks down journalist Laura Loomer’s stand against Big Tech, where she handcuffed herself to the door of Twitter’s HQ to raise awareness about conservative censorship on social media.-------------------Handcuffed Laura Loomer Demands, “Stop the Bias of Conservatives, Jack Dorsey!”





Infowars correspondent Will Johnson breaks down journalist Laura Loomer’s stand against Big Tech, where she handcuffed herself to the door of Twitter’s HQ to raise awareness about conservative censorship on social media.-------------------Communist China Has Been Set Up By Globalists To Win





The globalists have chosen China as the country that will lead the way into humanity’s future. Alex Jones breaks down how a one-sided deal made 50 years ago puts China in the driver’s seat.-------------------Communist China Has Been Set Up By Globalists To Win





The globalists have chosen China as the country that will lead the way into humanity’s future. Alex Jones breaks down how a one-sided deal made 50 years ago puts China in the driver’s seat.-------------------Earthquake In Alaska: Did Man-Made Tremors Move An Island?





David Knight reports on a worldwide earthquake felt from Alaska to Africa and asks what is now the obvious question: was this event made from the activity of meddlesome men?-------------------Earthquake In Alaska: Did Man-Made Tremors Move An Island?





David Knight reports on a worldwide earthquake felt from Alaska to Africa and asks what is now the obvious question: was this event made from the activity of meddlesome men?-------------------Trump Asks, “Can Americans Handle What I’m About To Release?”





Can the American people handle the truth about the Democrats’ laundry list of crimes?-------------------Trump Asks, “Can Americans Handle What I’m About To Release?”





Can the American people handle the truth about the Democrats’ laundry list of crimes?-------------------Roger Stone Vows Never To Testify Against Trump: ‘Where Is The Crime? I Engaged In Politics’





President Donald Trump’s longtime ally Roger Stone — in the crosshairs of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election — refuted any illegal behavior in his pre-election activities, asking “where is the crime?”

In an interview on ABC News’ “This Week,” Stone declared “I engaged in politics.”

“Where is the crime?” he asked. “I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the WikiLeaks Twitter feed and send a Google news alert for [WikiLeaks founder] Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosure when they came as politics.”

Read more-------------------French President Macron Confronts Saudi Prince MbS





French President Emmanuel Macron confronted Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman over the murder of Jamal Khashoggi on the sidelines of the G20 summit Friday, French officials said.

Video of Macron and MBS chat , you can hear #France Prez saying "you never listen to me", #Saudi CP responds "I do of course listen" At G-20 today via @OKAZ_online pic.twitter.com/NRhkgBQlLb — Joyce Karam (@Joyce_Karam) November 30, 2018

In a five-minute talk, part of which was caught on tape, Macron gave “very firm” messages to MbS over the killing, French officials told Reuters, and demanded that international experts take part in an investigation into the murder that the Saudi government is suspected of ordering.

The two also spoke about the war in Yemen, per Reuters.

In a video posted by the Saudi Gazette newspaper, Macron and MbS can be seen speaking quietly.

Read more-------------------French President Macron Confronts Saudi Prince MbS





French President Emmanuel Macron confronted Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman over the murder of Jamal Khashoggi on the sidelines of the G20 summit Friday, French officials said.

Video of Macron and MBS chat , you can hear #France Prez saying "you never listen to me", #Saudi CP responds "I do of course listen" At G-20 today via @OKAZ_online pic.twitter.com/NRhkgBQlLb — Joyce Karam (@Joyce_Karam) November 30, 2018

In a five-minute talk, part of which was caught on tape, Macron gave “very firm” messages to MbS over the killing, French officials told Reuters, and demanded that international experts take part in an investigation into the murder that the Saudi government is suspected of ordering.

The two also spoke about the war in Yemen, per Reuters.

In a video posted by the Saudi Gazette newspaper, Macron and MbS can be seen speaking quietly.

Read more-------------------Ukrainian Whistleblower: Dem/Ukraine Collusion In 2016 & The Buildup To War Now





The tension at the Ukrainian border with Russia has reached a boiling point as Martial Law has now been declared in the country.

Andrii Telizhenko joins David Knight to discuss how Democrats attempted to used the conflict to rig the 2016 election and more.-------------------Ukrainian Whistleblower: Dem/Ukraine Collusion In 2016 & The Buildup To War Now





The tension at the Ukrainian border with Russia has reached a boiling point as Martial Law has now been declared in the country.

Andrii Telizhenko joins David Knight to discuss how Democrats attempted to used the conflict to rig the 2016 election and more.-------------------7.0 Magnitude Quake Rocks Alaska





The city of Anchorage in the US state of Alaska sustained significant damage following a 7.0 magnitude earthquake. The quake prompted fears of a tsunami, but the warning has now been called off.

A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake cracked buildings and buckled roads in Anchorage, Alaska on Friday, causing people to flee from their homes and offices while windows shattered and shelves toppled over.

A tsunami warning was initially issued for the coastal areas of southern Alaska, but the warning was later canceled by the US Tsunami Warning System.

The US Geological Survey (USGS) also logged several strong aftershocks in the area, as is common after any larger quake, with one of the larger aftershocks coming in at a 5.8 magnitude.

The USGS added that the epicenter of the quake appeared to be located 7 miles (13 kilometers) north of Anchorage.

There were no immediate reports of injuries or deaths. The Anchorage police department said in a statement that the earthquake caused “major infrastructure damage” across the city.

Major Damage to Roads

Anchorage residents posted pictures on social media of massively cracked roads and damaged buildings following the earthquake.

Journalist Cassie Schirm with TV station KTVA posted a picture on Twitter showing the damage to the station’s newsroom.

Another Twitter user shared a video showing a severely damaged section of a highway with a car marooned in the middle of the cracked road.

7.2 earthquake here in Anchorage, Alaska. This is a video my dad took from the Minnesota exit ramp from international. 😰😰 pic.twitter.com/1yOGj3yz9q — sarah m (@sarahh_mars) November 30, 2018

Former Alaska Governor and former Republican US vice presidential nominee, Sarah Palin, wrote on Twitter that her house had sustained damage in the quake. “So thankful to be safe; praying for our state following the earthquake,” she wrote.

🙏🏼 for Alaska. Our family is intact – house is not… I imagine that’s the case for many, many others. So thankful to be safe; praying for our state following the earthquake. — Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) November 30, 2018

The US state of Alaska is no stranger to earthquakes. The state experiences around 40,000 earthquakes a year, with more large quakes than all the other 49 US states combined, according to the Associated Press.

In March 1964, Alaska was hit by a 9.2 magnitude earthquake that lasted over 4 minutes — the strongest recorded in US history. That quake triggered a tsunami that claimed around 130 lives.

Read more-------------------7.0 Magnitude Quake Rocks Alaska





The city of Anchorage in the US state of Alaska sustained significant damage following a 7.0 magnitude earthquake. The quake prompted fears of a tsunami, but the warning has now been called off.

A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake cracked buildings and buckled roads in Anchorage, Alaska on Friday, causing people to flee from their homes and offices while windows shattered and shelves toppled over.

A tsunami warning was initially issued for the coastal areas of southern Alaska, but the warning was later canceled by the US Tsunami Warning System.

The US Geological Survey (USGS) also logged several strong aftershocks in the area, as is common after any larger quake, with one of the larger aftershocks coming in at a 5.8 magnitude.

The USGS added that the epicenter of the quake appeared to be located 7 miles (13 kilometers) north of Anchorage.

There were no immediate reports of injuries or deaths. The Anchorage police department said in a statement that the earthquake caused “major infrastructure damage” across the city.

Major Damage to Roads

Anchorage residents posted pictures on social media of massively cracked roads and damaged buildings following the earthquake.

Journalist Cassie Schirm with TV station KTVA posted a picture on Twitter showing the damage to the station’s newsroom.

Another Twitter user shared a video showing a severely damaged section of a highway with a car marooned in the middle of the cracked road.

7.2 earthquake here in Anchorage, Alaska. This is a video my dad took from the Minnesota exit ramp from international. 😰😰 pic.twitter.com/1yOGj3yz9q — sarah m (@sarahh_mars) November 30, 2018

Former Alaska Governor and former Republican US vice presidential nominee, Sarah Palin, wrote on Twitter that her house had sustained damage in the quake. “So thankful to be safe; praying for our state following the earthquake,” she wrote.

🙏🏼 for Alaska. Our family is intact – house is not… I imagine that’s the case for many, many others. So thankful to be safe; praying for our state following the earthquake. — Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) November 30, 2018

The US state of Alaska is no stranger to earthquakes. The state experiences around 40,000 earthquakes a year, with more large quakes than all the other 49 US states combined, according to the Associated Press.

In March 1964, Alaska was hit by a 9.2 magnitude earthquake that lasted over 4 minutes — the strongest recorded in US history. That quake triggered a tsunami that claimed around 130 lives.

Read more-------------------MEP Warns UN Pact Will Flood Europe With 59 Million Migrants by 2025





British MEP Janice Atkinson warns that the UN Compact on Migration would lead to Europe being flooded with 59 million new migrants within the next 6 years.

The document is not legally binding, but governments will be under pressure to follow its dictates. Numerous countries, including the United States and Hungary, have said they will refuse to sign the pact.

“If you think you’re in control of your borders, think again,” said Atkinson, adding, “This compact backs the EU and the UN’s aim to flood our nations with 59 million migrants by 2025…. just 6 years.”

Atkinson went on to explain the source of the new pact; A 2000 declaration that concluded Europe’s ethnic population was in decline “and therefore needed replacing.”

This has been disproven by youth unemployment in some European countries being 50% or higher, as well as many new migrants being “unemployable,” with only around 13% employed on average according to Atkinson.

The MEP savaged British Prime Minister Theresa May for promising to take back control of British borders via Brexit and yet planning to sign the UN migration pact next month.

“Remember – the UN and the globalists want to flood our continent with 59 million migrants by 2025,” Atkinson emphasized, adding that the UN document states mass immigration is “inevitable, desirable and necessary.”

Warning that the plan would lead to European countries having their “culture and identity crushed,” Atkinson also pointed out that the pact could lead to hate speech laws that make it illegal to use the term “illegal migrants,” replacing it instead with “irregular migrants”.

“It will be illegal not to use their prescribed language,” warned Atkinson, adding that European citizens could “say goodbye to your democracy and your way of life,” unless they demand their leaders refuse to sign the document.

The MEP’s concern about language policing is shared by Dutch MEP Marcel de Graaff, who said that the pact would grease the skids for laws that would criminalize criticism of mass immigration as hate speech.

SUBSCRIBE on YouTube:

Follow on Twitter: Follow @PrisonPlanet

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/paul.j.watson.71

*********************

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.-------------------MEP Warns UN Pact Will Flood Europe With 59 Million Migrants by 2025





British MEP Janice Atkinson warns that the UN Compact on Migration would lead to Europe being flooded with 59 million new migrants within the next 6 years.

The document is not legally binding, but governments will be under pressure to follow its dictates. Numerous countries, including the United States and Hungary, have said they will refuse to sign the pact.

“If you think you’re in control of your borders, think again,” said Atkinson, adding, “This compact backs the EU and the UN’s aim to flood our nations with 59 million migrants by 2025…. just 6 years.”

Atkinson went on to explain the source of the new pact; A 2000 declaration that concluded Europe’s ethnic population was in decline “and therefore needed replacing.”

This has been disproven by youth unemployment in some European countries being 50% or higher, as well as many new migrants being “unemployable,” with only around 13% employed on average according to Atkinson.

The MEP savaged British Prime Minister Theresa May for promising to take back control of British borders via Brexit and yet planning to sign the UN migration pact next month.

“Remember – the UN and the globalists want to flood our continent with 59 million migrants by 2025,” Atkinson emphasized, adding that the UN document states mass immigration is “inevitable, desirable and necessary.”

Warning that the plan would lead to European countries having their “culture and identity crushed,” Atkinson also pointed out that the pact could lead to hate speech laws that make it illegal to use the term “illegal migrants,” replacing it instead with “irregular migrants”.

“It will be illegal not to use their prescribed language,” warned Atkinson, adding that European citizens could “say goodbye to your democracy and your way of life,” unless they demand their leaders refuse to sign the document.

The MEP’s concern about language policing is shared by Dutch MEP Marcel de Graaff, who said that the pact would grease the skids for laws that would criminalize criticism of mass immigration as hate speech.

SUBSCRIBE on YouTube:

Follow on Twitter: Follow @PrisonPlanet

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/paul.j.watson.71

*********************

Paul Joseph Watson is the editor at large of Infowars.com and Prison Planet.com.-------------------Federal Reserve Moves To Kill U.S. Recovery To Stop Trump





Alex Jones uses mainstream media articles to reveal how the Federal Reserve is openly sabotaging President Trump and his administration’s valiant attempt to salvage the United States’ economy.-------------------Federal Reserve Moves To Kill U.S. Recovery To Stop Trump





Alex Jones uses mainstream media articles to reveal how the Federal Reserve is openly sabotaging President Trump and his administration’s valiant attempt to salvage the United States’ economy.-------------------Trump Closes Major Trade Deal With Canada, Mexico





The United States, Canada and Mexico signed a North American trade pact on Friday, and President Donald Trump brushed aside difficulties he may have in getting the deal through U.S. Congress, where the opposition Democrats will control one of its two chambers from January.

The leaders of the three countries agreed on a deal in principle to govern more than a trillion dollars of mutual trade after a year and a half of acrimonious negotiations concluded with a late-night bargain just an hour before a deadline on Sept. 30.

Friday’s signing potentially ends a big source of irritation for the U.S. administration as it pivots to a much bigger trade fight with China that threatens the global economy. All eyes are on a meeting between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday after a G20 summit in Buenos Aires.

Read more-------------------Trump Closes Major Trade Deal With Canada, Mexico





The United States, Canada and Mexico signed a North American trade pact on Friday, and President Donald Trump brushed aside difficulties he may have in getting the deal through U.S. Congress, where the opposition Democrats will control one of its two chambers from January.

The leaders of the three countries agreed on a deal in principle to govern more than a trillion dollars of mutual trade after a year and a half of acrimonious negotiations concluded with a late-night bargain just an hour before a deadline on Sept. 30.

Friday’s signing potentially ends a big source of irritation for the U.S. administration as it pivots to a much bigger trade fight with China that threatens the global economy. All eyes are on a meeting between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday after a G20 summit in Buenos Aires.

Read more-------------------Oil Has Worst Month in a Decade Just Before G20





Oil toiled at a more than one-year low after its worst month in a decade on Friday, while most major markets were keeping moves tight ahead of a weekend meeting between U.S. and Chinese presidents Donald Trump and Xi Jinping.

Europe’s main share indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris all sank [.EU], and Wall Street futures were pointing down too after the latest batch of disappointing Chinese data had made for another twitchy Asian session.

Frankfurt’s export-heavy DAX and Britain’s domestic-focused FTSE 250 were both staring at their fourth consecutive month of falls.

Read more-------------------Oil Has Worst Month in a Decade Just Before G20





Oil toiled at a more than one-year low after its worst month in a decade on Friday, while most major markets were keeping moves tight ahead of a weekend meeting between U.S. and Chinese presidents Donald Trump and Xi Jinping.

Europe’s main share indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris all sank [.EU], and Wall Street futures were pointing down too after the latest batch of disappointing Chinese data had made for another twitchy Asian session.

Frankfurt’s export-heavy DAX and Britain’s domestic-focused FTSE 250 were both staring at their fourth consecutive month of falls.

Read more-------------------The Fed Has Become Increasingly Dependent on Easy-Money Policy





“I think we have much more of a Fed problem than we have a problem with anyone else”, said US President Donald J. Trump on 20 November 2018.

While the press, mainstream economists, and bankers cry wolf, the US President hits the nail on its head: The Fed is the source of significant economic and political trouble. By issuing US dollar out of thin air, it sets into motion unsustainable booms, which sooner or later turn into bust.

What is more, the Fed, expanding the US dollar quantity through credit expansion, nurtures the “deep state”: Providing it with the financial means to buy voter consent; to increase its impact on all walks of peoples’ lives; to make possible its aggressive military adventures on a world-wide scale; and to keep alive and kicking its monetary system – that couldn’t survive without an ever deeper state.

Viewed from this perspective, is it not good news that the Fed wants to tighten its policy further? Well, the truth is that Fed interest rate changes do not and cannot solve any problems caused by the Fed’s meddling with interest rates in the first place. By its very nature, monetary policy inevitably creates economic distortions – which appear in the build-up and bursting of speculative frenzies and the notorious boom and bust cycles.

By reviewing how the Fed has been setting interest rates in the past, you might get the impression that things have become ever more problematic. Just consider Figure 1, which shows annual US nominal GDP growth and the Federal Funds Rate in per cent. Eyeballing these two series suggests that the Fed has set its interest rates more or less in line with nominal GDP growth.

The “Interest Rate Gap”

Mainstream economists would not find any fault with such an interest rate setting. They would argue that the central bank should, in principle, increase its interest rate if and when economic growth accelerates, and it should lower borrowing costs once GDP expansion loses steam. (A formalized version of this viewpoint has been made popular by the concept of “Taylor interest rate rules.”)

The really interesting finding, however, comes out in Figure 2: It shows the difference between annual nominal GDP growth and the Fed’s main interest rate in percentage points. Moreover, as we can see, this time series has been drifting upwards: from cycle to cycle, the Fed has allowed the gap between nominal GDP growth and its main refinancing rate to widen. In other words: It appears that the Fed’s policy has become increasingly expansionary.

In this context, we have to remind ourselves what artificial lowering of the market interest rate — and this is what the gap between nominal GDP growth and the Fed’s main refinancing rate represents — does to the economy. For instance, it inflates asset prices. In the case of stocks, expected future profits are discounted with a lower interest rate, thereby increasing their present value and thus stock prices.

Pretty much the same happens with real estate prices. As asset prices go up on the markets, their value as collateral in credit transactions also rises. Borrowing on the part of asset holders becomes economically more attractive. Lenders, encouraged by collateral gaining in value, ease their lending standards. As a result, rising asset prices set into motion a borrowing and lending spree.

Furthermore, artificially suppressed market interest rates encourage consumption at the expense of savings. The economy is then living beyond its means. Initially, output and employment increase. Sooner or later, however, it becomes evident that the “boom” is unsustainable, and that it (other things being equal) inevitably has to turn into “bust”.

To fend off the bust, the central bank prevents the artificially lowered interest rate from rising. In fact, to keep the boom going, the central bank has to push the market interest rate to ever lower levels. This is actually what the Fed has been doing for decades: It has set into motion a boom through pushing down market interest rates, and in times of crises, it has lowered borrowing costs even further.

Once the economy recovered, the Fed has raised interest rates, but only very hesitantly. This may explain why the gap between nominal GDP growth and the Fed’s key interest rate has grown so substantially over time. With the Federal Funds Rate currently standing in a band of between 2.00 and 2.25 per cent, Figure 1 b would suggest that the Fed’s rate hiking spree might be pretty close to an end.

What Should — and Can — Be Done

But as noted earlier, this would by no means bring the problems caused by Fed monetary policy to an end. But what should and could be done? Let us conclude this article with what Murray N. Rothbard has to say about the Fed, the problems it creates, and how an economically sound solution would look like:-------------------The Fed Has Become Increasingly Dependent on Easy-Money Policy





“I think we have much more of a Fed problem than we have a problem with anyone else”, said US President Donald J. Trump on 20 November 2018.

While the press, mainstream economists, and bankers cry wolf, the US President hits the nail on its head: The Fed is the source of significant economic and political trouble. By issuing US dollar out of thin air, it sets into motion unsustainable booms, which sooner or later turn into bust.

What is more, the Fed, expanding the US dollar quantity through credit expansion, nurtures the “deep state”: Providing it with the financial means to buy voter consent; to increase its impact on all walks of peoples’ lives; to make possible its aggressive military adventures on a world-wide scale; and to keep alive and kicking its monetary system – that couldn’t survive without an ever deeper state.

Viewed from this perspective, is it not good news that the Fed wants to tighten its policy further? Well, the truth is that Fed interest rate changes do not and cannot solve any problems caused by the Fed’s meddling with interest rates in the first place. By its very nature, monetary policy inevitably creates economic distortions – which appear in the build-up and bursting of speculative frenzies and the notorious boom and bust cycles.

By reviewing how the Fed has been setting interest rates in the past, you might get the impression that things have become ever more problematic. Just consider Figure 1, which shows annual US nominal GDP growth and the Federal Funds Rate in per cent. Eyeballing these two series suggests that the Fed has set its interest rates more or less in line with nominal GDP growth.

The “Interest Rate Gap”

Mainstream economists would not find any fault with such an interest rate setting. They would argue that the central bank should, in principle, increase its interest rate if and when economic growth accelerates, and it should lower borrowing costs once GDP expansion loses steam. (A formalized version of this viewpoint has been made popular by the concept of “Taylor interest rate rules.”)

The really interesting finding, however, comes out in Figure 2: It shows the difference between annual nominal GDP growth and the Fed’s main interest rate in percentage points. Moreover, as we can see, this time series has been drifting upwards: from cycle to cycle, the Fed has allowed the gap between nominal GDP growth and its main refinancing rate to widen. In other words: It appears that the Fed’s policy has become increasingly expansionary.

In this context, we have to remind ourselves what artificial lowering of the market interest rate — and this is what the gap between nominal GDP growth and the Fed’s main refinancing rate represents — does to the economy. For instance, it inflates asset prices. In the case of stocks, expected future profits are discounted with a lower interest rate, thereby increasing their present value and thus stock prices.

Pretty much the same happens with real estate prices. As asset prices go up on the markets, their value as collateral in credit transactions also rises. Borrowing on the part of asset holders becomes economically more attractive. Lenders, encouraged by collateral gaining in value, ease their lending standards. As a result, rising asset prices set into motion a borrowing and lending spree.

Furthermore, artificially suppressed market interest rates encourage consumption at the expense of savings. The economy is then living beyond its means. Initially, output and employment increase. Sooner or later, however, it becomes evident that the “boom” is unsustainable, and that it (other things being equal) inevitably has to turn into “bust”.

To fend off the bust, the central bank prevents the artificially lowered interest rate from rising. In fact, to keep the boom going, the central bank has to push the market interest rate to ever lower levels. This is actually what the Fed has been doing for decades: It has set into motion a boom through pushing down market interest rates, and in times of crises, it has lowered borrowing costs even further.

Once the economy recovered, the Fed has raised interest rates, but only very hesitantly. This may explain why the gap between nominal GDP growth and the Fed’s key interest rate has grown so substantially over time. With the Federal Funds Rate currently standing in a band of between 2.00 and 2.25 per cent, Figure 1 b would suggest that the Fed’s rate hiking spree might be pretty close to an end.

What Should — and Can — Be Done

But as noted earlier, this would by no means bring the problems caused by Fed monetary policy to an end. But what should and could be done? Let us conclude this article with what Murray N. Rothbard has to say about the Fed, the problems it creates, and how an economically sound solution would look like:-------------------Dem Congresswoman Admits Helping Caravan Members Enter US After They Were Denied Entry





It’s hardly a secret that leftists love the idea of open borders and letting illegal immigration run amok.

It’s also a well-established fact that Democrats typically harbor a seething hatred of all things related to President Donald Trump and will stoop to any depth to needle the president.

But it takes a certain level of brazenness, even for a leftist Democrat, to boast about personally helping and bringing members of the migrant caravan across the border just to stick it to Trump.

U.S. Rep. Pramila Jayapal, a Washington Democrat, apparently has that kind of brazenness.

The 53-year-old Jayapal bragged on her Twitter account about helping migrants get into the United States after they had previously been denied entry.

TRENDING: Watch: Abby Huntsman Erupts on ‘The View’ Co-Hosts in Defense of Trump – ‘Really? Really?’

I was able to successfully assist 5 asylum seekers – 2 unaccompanied minors, a mother and her 9 year old child, and a young man with a serious medical condition – into the United States. — Rep. Pramila Jayapal (@RepJayapal) December 2, 2018

“I was able to successfully assist 5 asylum seekers – 2 unaccompanied minors, a mother and her 9 year old child, and a young man with a serious medical condition – into the United States,” Jayapal wrote on Twitter.

So, to recap: A United States congresswoman is bragging to the public about bringing in two minors who will inevitably end up in the foster care system, as well as someone who will immediately put a squeeze on taxpayer-funded health care programs with a “serious medical condition.” Wow.

Jayapal didn’t stop there. In a subsequent Twitter post, she also took it upon herself to accuse Trump’s border patrol agents of “illegal” acts.

Initially they were denied, in violation of U.S. and international law, but I was able to intervene and ensure that they could simply present themselves for asylum in the United States. — Rep. Pramila Jayapal (@RepJayapal) December 2, 2018

“Initially they were denied, in violation of U.S. and international law, but I was able to intervene and ensure that they could simply present themselves for asylum in the United States,” Jayapal said.

It’s not abundantly clear what violations Jayapal is speaking of, though presumably she’s referring to United States asylum laws. In that sense, it’s beyond depressing that a United States congresswoman can be so obtuse as to what exactly qualifies a migrant for asylum.

To qualify for asylum, migrants must be fleeing because they have a well-established fearing of persecution for any number of reasons, including political or religious affiliation. Seeking employment or better health care, as many of these migrants admit to be looking for, unequivocally do not qualify for asylum.

U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz, a conservative Florida Republican, took to Twitter to call out Jayapal’s efforts.

.@PramilaJayapal is a very well-studied person; pleasant to be around. But her joining the caravan as some sort of “congressional coyote” is nuts! https://t.co/fXLGAbZ5ei — Matt Gaetz (@mattgaetz) December 2, 2018

RELATED: Border Patrol Busts Caravan Member in US, Turns Out He’s a Convicted Murderer

“Nuts” is one word for it, anyway.

But even if we were to give the fact that Jayapal did some incredibly humane act of goodness, how pathetic is it that her good deed was done just to attack Trump?

And make no mistake, Jayapal is a huge Trump critic.

According to Roll Call, she has just been elected co-chairwoman of the House Progressive Caucus. She also said in an interview with Politico on Friday that she decided to take her most recent trip to the border because she was horrified by reports last week about the Border Patrol using tear gas on migrants from the caravan who tried to storm the border.

Are Democrats like just making the illegal immigration problem worse? Yes No

Completing this poll entitles you to Conservative Tribune news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use You’re logged in to Facebook. Click here to log out.

“When I read the report about a week ago that kids and moms were being tear gassed, I just couldn’t sleep,” she told Politico. “I want to go see for myself what is happening, what happens to asylum seekers as they get to the border, how are they turned back, what’s happening to them in between, where the conditions in which they’re living.”

She clearly had no concern about the Border Patrol agents who were involved. They’re just regular American citizens doing their jobs — the kind of people Democrats increasingly have little use for, apparently.

And naturally, she blamed Trump for all of it.

“The president is lying about this caravan, he’s fear mongering,” she told Politico. “He’s trying to use people who are seeking asylum and literally running from death just for his own political benefit and that’s a disgrace.”

To paraphrase Jayapal, she is lying about this caravan. She’s trying to use people who are seeking asylum and literally running to better jobs for her own political benefit.

And that, my friends, truly is a disgrace.

We are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.-------------------All ‘SNL’ Wants for Christmas Is for Mueller to Lock Up Trump, ‘Only Other Option Is a Coup’





In what was supposedly a “comedy” act to close out the latest episode of NBC’s Saturday Night Live, the female cast members got together to sing their rendition of Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas Is You”. But the person they had their eye on was Special Counsel Robert Mueller, or, at least a report that would put Trump in jail. Because, according to the SNL cast, “the only other option is a coup. Straight Africa.”

Aside from comedian Leslie Jones saying she was going to bake “rophies into cookies because this year, I’m going to get [Santa]” (What happened to #MeToo?), the song was comprised of the deranged ramblings of loony liberals.

“This needs to be done by Christmas. I need a fricking ounce of cheer. I just really want my life back. Oh my god, it's been two years,” the group sang, switching back and forth between them.

Getting more vindictive, they continued, saying: “I don't need a full impeachment. But we just need a little fun. Please tell us we aren't crazy. At least indict his oldest son.” “Please tell us we aren’t crazy” … Um, you’re singing a song to a special counsel to indict and lock up a sitting U.S. president. Sorry to break it to you, but you’re already there.

As they went, the group sang about how they were tired of getting “tiny nibbles” and wanted a “true entrée”, possibly talking about the many indictments not connected directly to Trump or collusion. “You better prove that Trump colluded. Or that he kidnapped JonBenet.” And they want to be told they’re not crazy.

Despite the recent cases of politically motivated violence, including last year’s mass assassination attempt of GOP lawmakers at a Congressional baseball practice, the SNL cast seemed to “joke” about overthrowing Trump in a bloody African-style coup: “We don't need a long-ass doc, just a single page that stocks. Mueller, please come through because the only other option is a coup. Straight Africa.”

“Oh, I got the whole case laid out on my kitchen floor. And if you can't lock Trump up, at least prove he's super poor,” they huffed.

As they were nearing the end of the song (and the show), the women made their final plea to Mueller to finish the investigation soon:

Oh, I don't need a lot for Christmas. Just a perfect magic spell that solves the whole world's problems and put the white guy in a cell. I just want to sleep at night. Please make sure your case is tight. And make our wish come true. Because, Mueller, all we want for Christmas is you.

Then Kate McKinnon admitted that “unless the report has like zero new information, because then we would rather it never come out.” “Yeah, yeah, because it is our last shred of hope and I’ve already drunk all the wine,” Cecily Strong exclaimed.

This song was from the same show that wept and sang “Hallelujah” when Hillary Clinton lost to Trump. The argument can be made that this Christmas song was funny, but probably not in the way the cast and the writers anticipated. Their attempt to attack Trump wasn’t funny, but it was pathetic. Them showing off their Trump Derangement Syndrome was hysterical.

The transcript is below, click "expand" to read:-------------------Roger Stone: 'Where's The Crime?' in 2016 Political Activities





President Donald Trump’s longtime ally Roger Stone — in the crosshairs of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election — refuted any illegal behavior in his pre-election activities, asking “where is the crime?”

In an interview on ABC News’ “This Week,” Stone declared “I engaged in politics.”

“Where is the crime?” he asked. “I engaged in politics. My purpose was to take a tip, which I thought to be solid, and then, after that, to follow the WikiLeaks Twitter feed and send a Google news alert for [WikiLeaks founder] Julian Assange and use Twitter to hype as much voter and media attention to the disclosure when they came as politics.”

“That's called politics,” he added.

He also said he never communicated with Assange about Hillary Clinton's emails and pushed back at descriptions of him as a “dirty trickster.”

“Assange himself has said, ‘While Roger Stone is a brilliant spin-master, we’ve had no communication with him whatsoever,‘” Stone said.

“I have never done anything in politics that was outside the norms of my colleagues and my contemporaries,” he added. “I have always made it clear that so-called dirty tricks come up to, but do not cross the line into illegality.”

He also reiterated his vows not to testify against Trump — and that he’s never talked to the president about a pardon if he gets indicted by Mueller prosecutors.

“There's no circumstance that I would testify against the president because I would have to bear false witness,” he said. “I would have to make things up. I'm not going to do that. I have had no discussion regarding a pardon.”-------------------Comey Strikes Deal Regarding Congressional Testimony





Former FBI Director James Comey ended a legal battle with House Republicans on Sunday, announcing that he will testify behind closed doors on Capitol Hill this week after receiving assurances that a transcript of his interview will be released to the public.

Comey’s announcement brings to an end a short-lived standoff over the former FBI chief’s congressional testimony. Republicans on the House Judiciary and House Oversight and Government Reform Committees subpoenaed Comey on Nov. 21 to appear for a closed-door deposition on Dec. 3 to face questions about his handling of the Clinton email and Trump-Russia collusion investigations. (RELATED: Comey Sues To Block House Subpoena For Deposition)

Comey sought a public hearing, claiming in a court filing Thursday that he feared “selective leaks” from Republicans. But in an emergency court hearing Friday, Comey’s attorneys acknowledged that the request to quash the congressional subpoena was unorthodox, suggesting the motion had little chance of succeeding.

Comey wrote Sunday on Twitter that he was “grateful for a fair hearing from judge.”

He said that he will testify “in the dark” but that Republicans had agreed he is “free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours.”

“This is the closest I can get to public testimony,” he wrote.

Grateful for a fair hearing from judge. Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony. — James Comey (@Comey) December 2, 2018

Republicans argued against Comey’s motion to block the subpoena, noting that other current and former FBI officials have testified privately during the course of the committees’ investigation of the Clinton and Trump probes.

“Sixteen other people have testified under oath in the same setting that we’re asking him to do it and his claim that he needs to do it in public is, in my opinion, a farce,” Virginia GOP Rep. Bob Goodlatte, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, told Fox News on Friday.

Republicans have accused the FBI and Justice Department of going easy on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and of abusing the surveillance court process to obtain spy warrants against former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.

Republican lawyers said they wanted to secure Comey’s testimony ahead of a report that the committees are planning to release in the coming weeks.

“If Mr. Comey’s deposition were to be stayed, it would have a profound impact on the Committee’s investigation and prevent the Committee from providing a full accounting of DOJ’s actions in 2016. The Committee intends to issue a joint report (together with [the House Oversight Committee]) before the end of the 115th Congress – i.e., in a few short weeks,” lawyers for the House Judiciary Committee wrote in a court filing Friday.

Follow Chuck on Twitter

Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.-------------------WATCH: Migrants Land Boat on California Beach 100 Miles from Border





Residents of a California beach community witnessed a surprising incident as a small boat packed with illegal aliens made landfall. The migrants made their way to the beach resort located about 100 miles from the Mexican border in a small panga boat.

Officials with the Laguna Beach Police Department tweeted a video showing the boat making landfall early Thursday morning and 13 illegal aliens running on shore. Police say that U.S. Border Patrol agents responded quickly and took custody of seven of the migrants and two suspected human smugglers who were allegedly waiting to pick up the migrants, the Orange County Register reported.

Laguna Beach PD, Marine Safety, and @CBP are still in the area searching on foot for additional panga boat passengers after the obtained video shows 13 individuals fleeing from the boat. Currently, 7 are detained. pic.twitter.com/ETvZ2gAr4f — Laguna Beach Police (@LagunaBeachPD) November 29, 2018

Laguna Beach Emergency Operations Coordinator Jordan Villwock told the local newspaper, “They (local residents) saw two men running for the cliffs. Officers were on scene in five minutes and immediately detained the two men who had ditched their life vests on the sand.”

A short time later, police found five more men hiding in the bushes and placed them in custody.

U.S. Border Patrol Agent Vincent Pirro told the local newspaper that of the two smugglers, one was a U.S. citizen and the other, an illegal alien on a “non-immigrant visa overstay.”

Officials said the panga boat is designed to carry up to 15 passengers. The video above shows 13 men running away from the boat and Border Patrol agents found 13 life vests, the Register reported. The agents seized the boat and nine gas cans.

Pirro said these types of long journeys are not that uncommon for human smuggling operations. “We see them leave from Ensenada a lot. They go around the Coronado Islands and north. They’ve gone as far as Half Moon Bay,” the agent explained.

The Register reported there have been 433 illegal aliens arrested 433 migrants illegally entering the U.S. via panga boats in the San Diego Sector since November 1, 2017. Pirro explained that the illegal aliens pay the smugglers between $13,000 and $17,000 for the boat ride to the U.S. Pirro said that makes it unlikely that the passengers were connected to the migrant caravan.

At least four of the men arrested were Mexican nationals and three others were Chinese, Pirro told the newspaper. The seven migrants face federal charges for immigration violations. The two men found waiting to pick up the migrants will be charged with human smuggling.-------------------Watch Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network Online





-------------------Senior ISIS leader involved in killing of former US Army Ranger killed in drone strike, coalition says





Abu al Umarayn, a senior ISIS leader who was involved in the brutal murder of former U.S. Army Ranger Peter Kassig, was killed in a drone strike in Syria on Sunday, the U.S.-led coalition said.

The leader, along with "several other ISIS members," was killed in precision drone strikes in Syria's Badiyah Desert, coalition spokesperson Col. Sean Ryan said in a statement.

"Al Umarayn had given indications of posing an imminent threat to Coalition Forces and he was involved in the killing of American Citizen and former U.S. Army Ranger, Peter Kassig," officials said. "He has been linked to and directly involved with executing several other prisoners as a senior ISIS member."

FLASHBACK: PETER KASSIG, FORMER ARMY RANGER HELD BY ISIS, WENT TO LEBANON TO HELP SYRIAN REFUGEES

The statement continued, "Coalition airstrikes continue to disrupt ISIS command and control on the battlefield as we remove key figures from their ranks.”

Kassig, a 26-year-old aid worker and U.S. citizen, was captured in Syria in October 2013 as he was providing aid to Syrians who were fleeing the country's civil war. His friends say he converted to Islam in captivity and took the first name Abdul-Rahman. ISIS released graphic video in 2014 showing he was beheaded, and U.S. officials confirmed the footage was authentic.

He enlisted in the Army more than a decade ago, and became a Ranger, ultimately serving in the 75th Ranger Regiment, an Army special operations unit, according to his military record. Kassig trained at Fort Benning, Georgia, in 2006, and deployed to Iraq from April to July 2007. He was medically discharged at the rank of private first class in September 2007.

2014 GRAPHIC ISLAMIC STATE GROUP VIDEO CLAIMS US AID WORKER PETER KASSIG BEHEADED

In a January 2013 interview with Time, Kassig said he traveled heavily throughout Lebanon to assess the needs of people there.

Kassig formed the aid organization Special Emergency Response and Assistance, or SERA, in Turkey to provide aid and assistance to Syrian refugees. He began delivering food and medical supplies to Syrian refugee camps in 2012 and is also a trained medical assistant who provided trauma care to injured Syrian civilians and helped train 150 civilians in providing medical aid.

Fox News' Lucas Tomlinson and The Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------S. Korea's Moon: Trump wants to grant Kim Jong Un's wishes





South Korea's president says U.S. President Donald Trump told him he has a "very friendly view" of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and wants to grant his wishes if he denuclearizes.

North Korea has sought security guarantees from the U.S. and relief from international sanctions.

President Moon Jae-in's office quoted Moon as saying that Trump asked him to convey these messages to the North Korean leader if he visits Seoul this year as he promised. Moon spoke to reporters on Saturday aboard his presidential plane en route to New Zealand from Argentina, where he met Trump on the sidelines of a Group of 20 Nations summit.

"President Trump asked me to forward to (Kim) these messages; he has a very friendly view of Chairman Kim Jong Un and likes him. He hopes to fully carry out the remaining agreements (from their June summit in Singapore) together with him so that he will make Chairman Kim Jong Un get what he wants," Moon said.

Moon said he and Trump agreed during their meeting that Kim's trip to Seoul would play a "very positive role" in U.S.-North Korea nuclear diplomacy. Moon said it's still unclear whether Kim will visit Seoul by the end of this year, and that it's up to the North Korean leader.

Moon, who has facilitated a series of high-level talks between the United States and North Korea including the Trump-Kim summit, has met Kim three times this year. After their third meeting in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, in September, Moon said Kim agreed to make a reciprocal visit to Seoul this year. Their two previous summits were held at the countries' shared border village of Panmunjom.

If Kim, a third-generation hereditary ruler, visits Seoul, he would be the first North Korean leader do so since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. Two previous South Korean presidents visited Pyongyang to meet with Kim's late father, Kim Jong Il.

After sharply raising tensions with nuclear and missile tests last year, Kim Jong Un abruptly reached out to Moon and Trump with a vague nuclear disarmament pledge. Subsequent nuclear diplomacy hasn't made headway since the U.S.-North Korea summit in June.

Trump said on Air Force One while returning to Washington from Argentina that his next meeting with Kim Jong Un would likely happen in January or February. He said there were three sites under consideration, but declined to name them.-------------------Preview: Fox Nation's 'Deep Dive'





-------------------Bangladesh gov't: Opposition leader Zia can't contest polls





Bangladesh's government has announced that opposition leader and former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia is ineligible to contest Dec. 30 national elections because she has been sentenced to prison in two corruption cases.

Attorney General Mahbubey Alam said Sunday that anyone convicted and sentenced to two years or more in jail is not eligible according to a recent Supreme Court ruling.

Zia, 73, who has been in jail since February, is serving a 10-year sentence on one corruption conviction. In October, she was sentenced to seven years after being found guilty in another case. Her party has called the convictions politically motivated.

Zia had filed nominations for three parliamentary seats. Her Bangladesh Nationalist Party rejected Sunday's announcement.

Ruhul Kabir Rizvi, a party leader, called the decision "ill-motivated."

"The rejection of her nomination papers are part of the government's blueprint to keep her away from the election," he said.

The elections will be held under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who is seeking a third consecutive time amid opposition accusations that she is becoming increasingly authoritarian and the opposition is being handled with an iron fist.

The country's law minister had said after her convictions that it was up to the Election Commission to decide whether Zia could contest the polls.

Bangladesh's constitution says "a person shall be disqualified for election as, or for being, a member of parliament who has been, on conviction for a criminal offense involving moral turpitude, sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than two years, unless a period of five years has elapsed since his release."

The attorney general said Sunday that the provision applies to anyone, and election officials cited a Supreme Court ruling to declare Zia unqualified to run.

Zia faces more than 30 other charges, ranging from corruption to sedition, which her party has denounced as politically motivated. The government has denied the allegation.

Zia was the country's prime minister three times — twice for full five-year terms and once for a brief period.

Bangladeshi politics are deeply divided, with rivals Hasina and Zia, both from political dynasties, alternately ruling the country since 1991, when democracy was restored.-------------------Russia deploys S-400 surface-to-air missile battery in Crimea, seen in new satellite images





Satellite images shot Sunday and exclusively obtained by Fox News show a newly deployed Russian S-400 surface-to-air missile battery in the Dzhankoy airbase in Crimea.

The intelligence report by ImageSat International indicates that the infrastructure for the S-400 battery was prepared in recent months, a long time before last weekend's naval encounters that sparked new tension between Russia and Ukraine.

The images showed a bare ground in April 2018, and construction by November 10 – two weeks before the recent escalation.

The image captured Sunday confirms the deployment. The eight launchers of the S-400 battery are divided into four, which are located in the southwest area of the airbase -- as well as two radar systems and several trucks nearby. One of them is suspected to carry S-400 missiles.

The mobile S-400 missile has a range of up to almost 250 miles and can climb to an altitude of almost 19 miles. It's intended to bring down a variety of aerial threats, from aircraft to cruise and ballistic missiles.

On November 28, 2018, the Russian defense ministry issued a statement, days after Russian warships seized multiple Ukrainian naval vessels, escalating the conflict with Ukraine over the land Russia annexed in 2014.

Russia has bolstered the Black Sea peninsula’s military defenses with three S-400 systems since 2017. The present deployment reinforces already existing S-400 batteries.-------------------Spain Socialists dealt blow in Andalusia, far-right emerges





Spain's Socialists suffered a setback in regional elections in the country's south Sunday, the first electoral test for Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez's party since he took power in June.

The blow to the Socialists contrasted with the eruption of the anti-immigrant, extreme right Vox party, which claimed 12 seats in the 109-member regional parliament of Andalusia. Vox had not previously held any seats in any legislative body in Spain since its founding four years ago, and now it has the key to forming a government in Spain's most populated region.

"Now is the moment to say loud and clear who we are and that we have come to stay," Vox candidate told a crowd of supporters who chanted "Spain! Spain! Spain!"

Andalusia has been a Socialist bastion for 36 years, but the party could lose control of the government if parties on the right join forces to oust regional leader Susana Diaz, though that would require that they join forces with Vox.

With 99 percent of the votes counted, the Socialists won the election, but saw their support plummet to just 33 seats, compared to 47 in 2015. That left the Socialists far from the majority of 55 seats needed to govern, even if they can get the backing of the far-left party Adelante Andalucia, which took 17 seats.

"Despite winning the election it is a sad night for the Socialist Party," Diaz said. "There has been a real loss of ground for the Left. But the worst thing is that the extreme right, a phenomenon that has appeared in the rest of Europe, has arrived here."

The conservative Popular Party and center-right Citizens party held 47 seats between them. That gives them fewer than the Socialists and Adelante Andalucia, so they would need the votes of Vox to reach the absolute majority.

Diaz said she would call on other parties to "build a firewall against the extreme right in Spain."

"Each party must decide if they are against the extreme right or if they will rely on their support to enter into government," she said.

Vox's platform includes a crackdown on immigration, a defense of Spain's unity against Catalonia secessionists, restricting abortion and rolling back domestic violence laws.

Two members of Vox shouted insults at Diaz when she submitted her ballot early Sunday in Seville. Vox said both people had been removed from their positions as voting monitors due to "inappropriate behavior."

Sanchez leads a minority government in Spain since he toppled former Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who lost a no-confidence vote. There is speculation Sanchez may call early elections if he cannot pass a national budget this year instead of serving out the legislative term that runs until 2020.-------------------Border village grinds to a halt amid Ukraine-Russia tensions





next Image 1 of 2

prev Image 2 of 2

Valentina Boldyreva stepped out of her two-story house on an overcast and snowy Sunday afternoon to say hello to her 76-year-old sister who lives on the other side of Friendship of People's Street, a tall barbed-wire fence separating them.

"You see my sister is walking up to the wire," Boldyreva said. "How are we going to talk to each other?"

"I'm not allowed to come close," her sister, Raisa Yakovleva, said as she stood just 100 meters away on the other side of the fence.

"Our windows are facing the barbed wire day and night as if looking out at a prison," Boldyreva said.

But it's not a prison camp. It's a border fence built by Russia earlier this year, marking what was once an invisible border in a symbolic shutdown of nearly all ties between the two neighboring nations.

On a map, Milove, where Boldyreva lives, and Chertkovo, where her sister resides, are one village, crossed by the once aptly named main road, Friendship of Peoples Street. It's a slogan that still rings true for many residents but it is being sorely tested by the animosity between their two nations, Russia and Ukraine.

Like Boldyreva and Yakoleva, almost every resident of Chertkovo and Milove has close relatives on the other side.

People speak both Russian and Ukrainian without turning the choice of language into a political statement as many have elsewhere, one of many thorny issues fueling the conflict between Ukraine and Russia since Moscow annexed the Crimea Peninsula in March 2014.

In the past, residents would routinely cross the street — back and forth between countries — as border guards looked the other way. These days, Russian border guards on one side and Ukrainian ones on the other patrol in twos or threes along the nearly deserted street, which now resembles a frontline zone.

On Friday, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko announced that all Russian men aged 16 to 60 were barred from entering the country. It was the latest sign of the steadily deteriorating relations between the two uneasy neighbors after the Russian coast guard fired upon and seized three Ukrainian naval vessels in the Black Sea last weekend.

Last week, Kiev announced 30 days of martial law in the country's border regions to bolster Ukraine's defenses against Russian aggression.

In fact, restrictions on Russians entering Ukraine had already effectively existed in Chertkovo for years. In 2015, Ukraine adopted a decree requiring Russians who want to cross the border to use foreign travel passports, as opposed to internal passports. Few Russians living in rural areas like Chertkovo have such documents.

Four and a half years after fighting broke out between Russian-backed separatists and Ukrainian troops in eastern Ukraine, only elderly women like 73-year-old Lidia Radchenko — smiling in a bulky fur coat — brave the crossing. She has three sons living in Ukraine, while another son and a daughter reside in Russia.

"We used to have such great parties. We would gather in the middle of the road," Rachenko said wistfully. "That fence is like a concentration camp."

Even passing a jar of pickles to relatives across the barbed wire fence separating the two sides is a punishable offense.

Most of the Russians who spoke to The Associated Press said they stopped crossing into Ukraine soon after the 2014 war broke out as reports spread of their countrymen running into trouble on the other side of the border.

Sitting in his hardware store in Chertkovo, 59-year-old Alexander Petukhov said he was spooked by the reports of people who were either turned back or deported after crossing. He has since cut his business ties with his main supplier in Kharkiv, a Ukrainian city in the east.

"We were used to living as free people," he said. "It all stopped when the fighting began."

The main border crossing for vehicles, where the line of cars would stretch for a mile before the war, was nearly deserted on Sunday, with seven cars, all with Ukrainian license plates, waiting to cross.

The no man's land between the Russian and the Ukrainian border posts still bears the Soviet-era slogan: "Let the eternal friendship between the Russian and the Ukrainian nations last for centuries!"

On Saturday, the Ukrainian side of Friendship of Peoples Street was filled with vendors selling everything from eggs to fur coats, their wares lid out on plastic folding tables. Once a bustling meeting place for residents of both sides, the market now only serves Ukrainian shoppers because Russians are either banned or reluctant to come.

Many wistfully recalled a time when people from both sides mixed freely.

"Chertkovo and Milove — I only found out in the seventh grade, at a geography lesson, that these were the Russia and the Ukrainian Soviet republics," said Serhiy Harbuz, shopping for milk and chicken in the market.

As he spoke, a Russian border guard could be seen patrolling along the barbed-wire fence less than 100 meters (yards) away.

The once-bustling crossing between Milove and Chertkovo was nearly empty, with just a few people walking from Ukraine into Russia, among them 54-year-old Olga Yevgenyevna and her husband.

"I'm originally from Chertkovo, and my mom lives here," she said, speaking in Ukrainian. When she married a man from a village on the Ukrainian side of the border, moving there in the late 1980s did not seem like a dramatic decision. Now her elderly mother and brother live in Russia and can't visit her.

Before the war, she said, "people were crossing everywhere. .... You go back and forth 15 times, no one would care. We had a market and shops. All of it was for everyone."

"I tell my mom: when I die, no one will come to bury me because Russians are not allowed," she said.

___

Chernov reported from Milove, Ukraine. Associated Press writer Matthew Bodner in Moscow contributed to this report.

___

This version corrects the spelling of Ukrainian village to Milove, not Melove.-------------------The Latest: Mexico foreign minister in Washington for talks





next Image 1 of 2

prev Image 2 of 2

The latest on Mexico's new president (all times local):

3:55 P.M.

Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard says via Twitter that he has arrived in Washington to meet with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

Migration is top on the mind of the administration of new Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who took office Saturday.

Thousands of Central American migrants hoping to apply for asylum in the U.S. have filled shelters in border towns like Tijuana and Mexicali. Addressing this buildup is a top priority of the new Mexican administration.

Ebrard reiterates in his Sunday tweet that Mexico's goal it to seek a relationship with the U.S. based on "mutual respect" and to identify common goals.

__

11:45 A.M.

Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador is using his first full day in office to double down on promises to deploy the military for public security, tackling a key concern: stemming rampant violence and rising murders.

The plan requires a constitutional reform that would allow the marines and Army to form a National Guard to police much of the country. Lopez Obrador spoke before rows of generals at a sun-drenched military installation on Sunday and said the retooling of the military is "indispensable."

Deep-rooted corruption and ineffectiveness among police forces has led Mexico to rely heavily for years on the military to combat drug cartels in parts of the country.

But military commanders have long expressed uneasiness about this open-ended policing mission, and the armed forces have been implicated in multiple human rights abuses.-------------------Leftist leader takes reins in Mexico vowing to help poor





Leftist politician Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador assumed Mexico's presidency with a promise — to profoundly transform Latin America's second-biggest economy and to lead a government free of corruption.

Seemingly tireless at age 65, Lopez Obrador breezed through a day of public appearances Saturday that included taking the oath of office and speaking to Congress and attending an inaugural celebration at Mexico City's vast main square.

He received a spiritual cleansing by indigenous leaders as part of the festivities, then closed out the gathering with a folksy 90-minute speech to the thousands of jubilant fans jamming the Zocalo vowing to help the poor in a nation where almost half the population lives in poverty.

"We are going to govern for everyone, but we are going to give preference to the most impoverished and vulnerable," Lopez Obrador said. "For the good of all, the poor come first."

Speaking in a personal style he honed over decades of small-town rallies, he told the crowd: "Be patient and have confidence in me."

Hopes for change are running high among the more than 30 million Mexicans who voted for Lopez Obrador in a sweeping July 1 election victory that also gave his party a majority in Congress. At the same time, worries are mounting among critics who see an expanding authoritarian streak.

MACRON TOURS DAMAGED ARC DE TRIOMPHE AFTER PARIS RIOTS

"The country is completely divided," said Valeria Moy, director of the Mexico, Como Vamos? think tank.

Moy said she had expected a more conciliatory tone from the president, who instead Saturday blamed many of Mexico's ills on decades of neoliberal policies that opened the country to greater trade and foreign investment.

While many are jubilant that Mexico has its first leftist president in decades, Moy noted that others are concerned about the economic decisions that Lopez Obrador will make, and of his use of referendums to validate his proposals.

Already, Lopez Obrador has halted construction of a new $13 billion airport for Mexico City after having that move backed in an unofficial referendum that saw just over 1 percent of voters participate. The peso and Mexican stocks plunged in response.

After decades with a closed, state-dominated economy, Mexico's governments since 1986 had signed more free trade agreements than almost any other nation and privatized every corner of the economy except oil and electricity. But Lopez Obrador has brought back a more insular tone not heard much since the 1960s, saying he wants to build more state-owned oil refineries and encouraging Mexicans to buy Mexican.

One of the most pressing issues he faces at the start of his presidency is the caravan of thousands of Central American migrants camped out at the U.S. border, hoping to obtain asylum in the U.S.

In his first official act in office, he signed an agreement Saturday with counterparts in three Central American countries to create a development plan for the region. The plan would include a fund to generate jobs as a way to lessen the poverty that drives people to leave El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

Most on the minds for many in Mexico, though, is the rising tide of violence.

"I don't expect him to change everything in two months, or even in six years, but if the violence comes down then good things will happen," said Amira Rozenbaum, who is optimistic for a change.

The president pledged Saturday to personally oversee daily 6 a.m. security briefings and to work 16-hour days to confront the brutal violence in Mexico.

He also promised to restore the energy sector to prominence and bring up Mexico's oil production from its current 25-year lows. Lopez Obrador began his political career leading demonstrations against oil pollution in his native state of Tabasco, and he is the country's first president since the Mexican Revolution to rise to prominence as a protest leader.

SNUBBED BY TRUMP, PUTIN CHARMS OTHER PLAYERS AT G20

Combined with a deep sense of nationalism and his own place in history, he envisions his administration creating a historic "fourth transformation" of Mexico, following independence from Spain, the liberal reforms that broke the church's dominance in the 1850s and the 1910-1917 revolution.

Lopez Obrador's many devotees express an unflinching faith in him. They call themselves "AMLOvers" and break into chants of: "It's an honor to be with Lopez Obrador."

Maria Antonia Flores was one of those on Zocalo to celebrate and said she had supported Lopez Obrador for more than 20 years. All around her, party loyalists donned burgundy vests and hats stamped with the logo of his Morena party.

"We love him because he's honest. He's hard-working. He has never let us down," she said. "He's not corruptible."

Lopez Obrador has pledged to end centuries of poverty and marginalization for Mexico's more than 70 indigenous communities, and he became the first president to take part in a ceremonial inauguration by indigenous groups.

Traditional healers brushed him with bunches of herbs and blew incense smoke over him to purify him, and they invoked the spirits of their ancestors and the land to liberate him from any bad influences.

"What we want, what we desire is to purify public life in Mexico," Lopez Obrador said during the ceremony. "I repeat my commitment: I will not lie, I will not steal or betray the people of Mexico."

His vow to root out government graft resonate with many, including some who have disagreements with him on other matters.

Mexico's richest man, telecom magnate Carlos Slim, whose companies were major investors in the canceled airport project, said there is common ground with Lopez Obrador's promises to rein in wasteful spending and corruption.

"Everybody wants spending to be efficiently managed," Slim said.-------------------Bush's Somalia mission to save 'innocents' echoes today





next Image 1 of 2

prev Image 2 of 2

In the final days of his presidency, George H.W. Bush committed the U.S. military to a mission many would later regret, ordering more than 20,000 troops into Somalia to "save thousands of innocents from death."

Within months, the image of dead U.S. soldiers dragged through the streets of Mogadishu profoundly changed the way the U.S. approached Africa. And yet it is barely mentioned in the explorations of Bush's legacy since his death.

Only now, under President Donald Trump, is the U.S. returning regular troops to Somalia as much of the military's work across Africa is conducted in far smaller doses, with drones and special operations forces and little fanfare of the past. The death of a U.S. soldier in Africa, as seen in Niger a year ago when four special operations were killed, brings sharp questions back home about "what we're doing over there."

In Bush's time, it was different. The Somalia mission was promoted as an act of charity, meant to protect starving Somalis from the attacks and looting that kept them from reaching aid in a country torn by warlord-led fighting after the fall of dictator of Siad Barre. The United Nations has estimated 300,000 people died.

"You're doing God's work," Bush said as he ended his live address from the White House. "We will not fail."

Cheering Somalis greeted the first U.S. troops as they arrived to lead a United Nations operation. And Bush became the first, and only, U.S. president to visit the drought-plagued Horn of Africa nation.

A month after ordering in the troops, he shared a modest New Year's meal with dozens of soldiers and Marines and told them the American people were fully behind them in the mission to help Somalis, called Operation Restore Hope.

"Thanks to you, they got a shot. They got a shot at really living," Stars and Stripes reported him saying.

These days, a visit to Somalia by an American president, wearing desert fatigues and dutifully eating the soldiers' meal of "Menu No. 8: Ham slice with Accessory Packet A," is now almost unthinkable.

As the humanitarian crisis eased, rebuilding Somalia became the goal, but it stumbled. The end came in October 1993 when an elite U.S. raid in Mogadishu against a key warlord descended into street battles. Hundreds of Somalis were killed. Two U.S. Black Hawk helicopters were shot down, and 18 Americans were killed. As global outrage echoed, the U.S. pulled out of Somalia five months later amid accusations that they had swept in well-intentioned but unprepared.

A quarter-century later, Somalia's fragile central government is still trying to take hold. It wrestles with widespread corruption, bitter relations with regional states and high-profile attacks by the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab — and now a new threat from fighters linked to the Islamic State organization.

While Trump recently announced he would soon visit a "war zone," chances are it will not be Somalia. After decades of the U.S. largely leaving Somalis to work out their own problems, the Trump administration with its focus on counterterror operations has grown the number of U.S. military personnel in the country to an estimated 500. But now the work is about fighting extremists. U.S. airstrikes targeting al-Shabab, 37 so far this year, receive much of the attention.

Two U.S. service members have been killed in Somalia since Trump took office, the first such deaths since 1993. The widespread insecurity means the U.S. still has not re-opened its embassy in Mogadishu, instead quietly using offices at the heavily defended international airport there.

Bush's death has revived a debate among some Somalis about the U.S. presence years ago, with some remembering their countrymen killed in the fight against warlords and others arguing that thousands of starving people were saved.

The country's Somali-American president, Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, avoided discussions of the past when he released a brief statement early Sunday expressing "heartfelt condolences."

Bush, he tweeted, "was a true statesman who was committed to world peace and upholding democracy."

___

Follow Africa news at https://twitter.com/AP_Africa-------------------Trump holds major meeting with China at G20





-------------------US, China put brakes on their trade dispute with ceasefire





next Image 1 of 2

prev Image 2 of 2

The United States and China reached a 90-day ceasefire in a trade dispute that has rattled financial markets and threatened world economic growth. The breakthrough came after a dinner meeting between President Donald Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping at the Group of 20 summit in Buenos Aires.

Trump agreed to hold off on plans to raise tariffs Jan. 1 on $200 billion in Chinese goods. The Chinese agreed to buy a "not yet agreed upon, but very substantial amount of agricultural, energy, industrial" and other products from the United States to reduce America's huge trade deficit with China, the White House said.

The truce, reached after a dinner of more than two hours Saturday, buys time for the two countries to work out their differences in a dispute over Beijing's aggressive drive to supplant U.S. technological dominance.

"It's an incredible deal," Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One. "What I'll be doing is holding back on tariffs. China will be opening up, China will be getting rid of tariffs. China will be buying massive amounts of products from us."

In a long-sought concession to the U.S., China agreed to label fentanyl, the deadly synthetic opioid responsible for tens of thousands of American drug deaths annually, as a controlled substance. And Beijing agreed to reconsider a takeover by U.S. chipmaker Qualcomm that it had previously blocked.

The White House announcement framed a victory for Trump and his unflinching negotiating tactics, securing a commitment from China to engage in talks on key U.S. economic priorities, with little obvious concession by the U.S. Notably, however, the White House appears to be reversing course on its previous threats to tie trade discussions to security concerns, like China's attempted territorial expansion in the South China Sea.

"It's great the two sides took advantage of this opportunity to call a truce," said Andy Rothman, investment strategist at Matthews Asia. "The two sides appear to have had a major change of heart to move away from confrontation toward engagement. This changes the tone and direction of the bilateral conversation."

The Trump-Xi meeting was the marquee event of Trump's whirlwind two-day trip to Argentina for the G-20 summit after the president canceled a sit-down with Russian President Vladimir Putin over mounting tensions between Russia and Ukraine. Trump also canceled a Saturday news conference, citing respect for the Bush family following the death of former President George H.W. Bush.

Trump said Bush's death put a "damper" on what he described as a "very important meeting" with Xi.

The United States and China are locked in a dispute over their trade imbalance and Beijing's tech policies. Washington accuses China of deploying predatory tactics in its tech drive, including stealing trade secrets and forcing American firms to hand over technology in exchange for access to the Chinese market.

Trump has imposed import taxes on $250 billion in Chinese products — 25 percent on $50 billion worth and 10 percent on the other $200 billion. Trump had planned to raise the tariffs on the $200 billion to 25 percent if he couldn't get a deal with Xi.

China has already slapped tariffs on $110 billion in U.S. goods.

Under the agreement reached in Buenos Aires, the two countries have 90 days to resolve their differences over Beijing's tech policies. If they can't, the higher U.S. tariffs will go into effect on the $200 billion in Chinese imports.

U.S. officials insist that the American economy is more resilient to the tumult than China's, but they remain anxious of the economic effects of a prolonged showdown — as Trump has made economic growth the benchmark by which he wants his administration judged.

A full-blown resolution was not expected to be reached in Buenos Aires; the issues that divide them are just too difficult.

Growing concerns that the trade war will increasingly hurt corporate earnings and the U.S. economy are a key reason why U.S. stock prices have been sinking this fall.

Joining other forecasters, economists at the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development last week downgraded their outlook for global economic growth next year to 3.5 percent from a previous 3.7 percent. In doing so, they cited the trade conflict as well as political uncertainty.

The U.S. and China also made progress on the regulation of fentanyl, which is 50 times more powerful than heroin. U.S. officials for years have been pressing the Chinese government to take a tougher stance against fentanyl, and most U.S. supply of the drug is manufactured in China.

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders says China's decision to label the drug as a controlled substance means that "people selling Fentanyl to the United States will be subject to China's maximum penalty under the law."

The White House also said that China's government is "open to approving" the purchase of Dutch semiconductor manufacturer NXP by American chipmaker Qualcomm.

China nixed the proposed takeover earlier this year, citing antitrust concerns, after U.S. and European regulators approved the deal.

China's decision earlier this year came amid a period of heightening tensions between the U.S. and China over trade and intellectual property issues.

Qualcomm announced it was dropping plans to proceed with the deal after it failed to receive Chinese government approval. It is unclear whether the transaction could be revived even with China's acquiescence.

In other developments, Trump announced aboard Air Force One on his return to Washington from Buenos Aires that his next meeting with North Korea's Kim Jong Un would likely happen in January or February. He said there were three sites under consideration, but he declined to name them.

Trump also said he would shortly be providing formal notice to Congress that he will terminate the North American Free Trade Agreement, giving lawmakers six months to approve the replacement he signed Friday. He said lawmakers can choose between the replacement, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or nothing.

___

Wiseman reported from Washington.-------------------Russia deploys S-400 surface-to-air missile battery in Crimea





-------------------Gambians embrace new freedoms with environment activism





Hundreds of Gambians were grateful for the jobs created by a Chinese-run fish processing plant that arrived in 2014. Then they were shocked when dead fish began washing up on a nearby shore.

Residents of the coastal town of Gunjur reported chemical residue on their skin after swimming that made them itch. Environmental activists blamed the Chinese-owned company, Golden Lead Import & Export.

After activists said the company had failed to remove a pipe accused of spewing toxic waste into the sea, local youth issued an ultimatum: Dig the pipe up, or we will. In March they did, storming the beach.

"We'll be willing to face any charges in defense of our community," their leader, Amadou Scattred Janneh, told The Associated Press. He is now out on bail facing criminal trespass charges.

For more than two decades, few in this tiny West African nation dared to speak out under the dictatorship of President Yahya Jammeh. Opposing voices were silenced by arrests and killings during his dictatorship.

A new era began when Jammeh was swept out of power and went into exile early last year. And as new President Adama Barrow's government has promised wider freedoms, Gambians are now speaking up as part of a nascent environmental movement.

After the protest over the fish processing plant, Gambia's government ultimately allowed the company to reinstate the pipe but required waste water to be treated before being discharged.

The company's general manager, Bakary Darboe, denies causing marine pollution and has accused the activists of damaging property.

Janneh's arrest hasn't stopped other environmental activists in Gambia from holding regular demonstrations over the depletion of natural reserves along the country's coastline.

Such activism is long overdue, filmmaker and activist Prince Bubacarr Sankanu told The Associated Press.

"The pressure on our meager natural resources is getting higher and higher, thus making proactive environmental activism an inevitable tool for good governance," he said.

Another high-profile demonstration earlier this year ended in the deaths of three protesters who had demanded the end of sand mining activities by the Julakay Entreprise company in the village of Faraba Banta.

The sand is used in construction but the practice has been accused of damaging Gambia's coastline and local farming, which is often residents' only source of income.

Inspired in part by such confrontations, Gambia's president in September set up a land commission to look into the challenges of administering one of the country's most important resources. Nearly 80 percent of the population relies on agriculture for a living.

"As a country, we have been hurt because the foundation of our democracy had been shaken and corrupted," Barrow said during the commission's swearing-in ceremony. "The former government abused the rights of the citizens, and many communities lost their land for political or dubious reasons."

___

Follow Africa news at https://twitter.com/AP_Africa-------------------Egypt actress says revealing dress wasn't meant to offend





An Egyptian actress facing trial on public obscenity charges for wearing a revealing dress says she didn't mean to offend anyone and appealed to her detractors to believe in her good intentions.

In a Facebook post late Saturday, Rania Youssef said she may have misjudged how people would react to the dress she wore at the closing ceremony of this year's Cairo International Film Festival, which revealed the entirety of her legs through embroidered gauze.

In choosing that dress, she said, she had referred to fashion designers that may have been influenced by the tastes and standards at international film festivals.

"I want to repeat my commitment to the values and ethics we have been raised by in Egyptian society," said Youssef, whose statement fell short of an apology.

Images of Youssef at the event were widely shared on social media, prompting a group of lawyers to file a complaint to the chief prosecutor, who quickly sent the actress to trial. Many complaints languish for months or longer before any action is taken, so the swift action betrays the urgency of the desire to appease those that took offense. Youssef is due in court on Jan. 12.

The case is the latest instance of ostensibly secular authorities embracing religious conservatism in Muslim-majority Egypt, where the military in 2013 — then led by current President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi — overthrew a freely elected but divisive Islamist president.

Elected to office in 2014, el-Sissi has since overseen a crackdown that saw thousands of Islamists and many secular, pro-democracy activists imprisoned, and reversed gains won by a popular 2011 uprising that toppled the 29-year rule of autocrat Hosni Mubarak.

But while el-Sissi's government embraces an almost obsessive opposition to political Islam, it has shown a large degree of tolerance toward ultraconservative Muslims. The Salafis, as they are known, have for decades worked quietly toward the gradual, non-violent transformation of Egypt into a society that observes the purist rules of Islam's early 7th century days.

El-Sissi is known to be an observing Muslim who consistently invokes the name of God in his speeches, but has regularly called on the country's top clerics to revise Islam's discourse in a bid to remove literature inspiring hatred or violence. As president, he said in a TV interview before his election in June 2014, "I will be responsible for (the nation's) values, ethics, principles and religion."

Egypt's Actors Guild, meanwhile, said in a statement that it intended to investigate and discipline actors who wore "inappropriate" attire during the opening and closing ceremonies of the weeklong film festival, arguing that they clashed with "the traditions, values and ethics of society."

"Although we absolutely believe in the personal freedom of artists, we appeal to everyone to shoulder their responsibilities toward the fans who appreciate their art and view them as role models," said the weekend statement. "That should compel them to exercise a minimum level of commitment to society's public values."

Youssef's dress and news of her impending trial have dominated the conversation on social media networks over the weekend, made the front-page Sunday of several newspapers and became the topic of several op-eds.

While some on social media invoked religion to denounce the actress' "immodesty," others criticized the judicial system for what they saw as bowing to conservatives, noting the lack of progress in redressing what they considered some of society's more pressing chronic ills, such as homelessness, corruption and the sexual harassment of women.

"A nation is jolted by a revealing dress at a festival but is not infuriated by a million children sleeping rough and scavenging in trash bins for food," opinion writer Khaled Montaser tweeted.

Emad Hussein, editor of the independent and respected daily Al-Shorouk, said Youssef had every right, in theory, to wear whatever dress she chose, but that her "grave mistake" was that it "looked more like a swimsuit."

"There is a law that prohibits offending the public but, more importantly, there are societal values that need to be respected," he wrote Sunday.-------------------Africa wildlife films try to inspire amid poaching scourge





next Image 1 of 2

prev Image 2 of 2

A documentary film about rhino poaching won awards at film festivals in Europe and the United States this year. But since bringing "STROOP: journey into the rhino horn war " home to South Africa, its makers have struggled for the same buzz in a country whose rhino population, the biggest in the world, has been under siege for a decade.

"Overseas, we had this amazing success," said Bonné de Bod, narrator of the film, whose title refers to the Afrikaans word for poach. "And we come back home and we have cinema distributors and even the media telling us that, 'Look, the public is tired of hearing about rhino poaching' or 'Our editor is tired of talking about rhinos.'"

"STROOP" has a deal for international distribution with Journeyman Pictures and several screenings are occurring in major South African cities, but no distributor is willing to risk a financial loss by putting it in cinemas. Documentaries about the slaughter of African wildlife can't compete with popular entertainment — de Bod mentioned "The Grinch," a Christmas film — and often subject audiences to disturbing images such as a rhino whose face has been mutilated by poachers.

Reaching the right audience is also hard. China and some other Asian countries are key consumers of illegal wildlife products, but access is not easy for documentaries that directly or implicitly criticize Asian governments and might include secretly filmed video of animal parts on sale in countries such as Laos and Vietnam.

"It is very much about not only just raising awareness, but hopefully bringing about much-needed change," said Kate Brooks, the American director and producer of "The Last Animals ," a documentary about the killing of African elephants for their ivory, the looming extinction of the northern white rhino, and rangers and others trying to save the iconic animals.

The film was screened last year in Hong Kong as part of a campaign by the WildAid conservation group, and Brooks testified to lawmakers there shortly before the territory decided to phase out its legal ivory trade by 2021, similar to a ban already in effect in mainland China. "The Last Animals" was also shown in Taiwan, and to some EU and British lawmakers. This year, Britain announced what it said was one of the world's toughest bans on ivory sales.

The film's website allows people in some countries, mainly in the West, who want full bans on the ivory trade to submit online appeals to their lawmakers, and the website's designers plan similar campaigns for Asia and Africa. Brooks warned that "these animals don't have a chance" as long as there are legal loopholes.

"The Last Animals" will be broadcast on Wednesday in South Africa on AMC's Sundance Channel and will be released by Netflix in Canada, Australia, Ireland and Britain on Dec. 24 as a global rollout continues, according to Brooks.

International bans on trade in ivory and rhino horn have been in effect for decades, but the killing of elephants and rhinos has surged. Recent court rulings in South Africa opened the way to a domestic trade in rhino horn, despite the concern of many conservationists. Some Asian consumers believe it can cure illnesses, although there is no evidence that the horn, made of the same substance as human fingernails, has any medicinal value.

Raul Gallego Abellan, a Spanish filmmaker, traveled to Mozambique's Niassa National Reserve this year for the Global Wildlife Program, an initiative led by the World Bank. He patrolled with rangers trying to contain some of the worst elephant poaching on the continent.

The four-part "Niassa Elephant Defenders " video seeks to "bring light into dark places" by showing the rangers' commitment, Gallego Abellan said.

He said he hoped viewers would not just share the video on social media but instead "do something by themselves," whether donating to an environmental cause or deciding not to buy a product linked to wildlife exploitation.

The 2014 "Virunga " documentary film raised awareness about threats to Virunga National Park in eastern Congo, but the park is currently closed to tourists because of security concerns and a militia killed a ranger there on Nov. 28. "Blood Lions ," a 2015 documentary about a business dubbed "canned hunting" by critics, led a South African parliamentary committee to call for a review of captive lion breeding.

"Gorillas in the Mist," a 1988 movie based on the book by American primatologist Dian Fossey, successfully drew attention to the plight of mountain gorillas in Rwanda and generated tourism there.

Since the onset of rhino poaching in South Africa a decade ago, the country has continued to grapple with other problems, including economic inequality and high crime. De Bod and director Susan Scott spent four years on STROOP, backed by grants, a crowd-funding initiative and their own savings. The film addresses divisions over how to help rhinos, giving a voice to owners who favor a legal horn trade.

"We wanted to show both sides," de Bod said. "If you watch the film, you have to make up your own mind."

___

Follow Christopher Torchia on Twitter at www.twitter.com/torchiachris-------------------Israeli police recommend indicting Netanyahu in telecom case





Israeli police on Sunday recommended indicting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on bribery charges, adding to a growing collection of legal troubles that have clouded the longtime leader's prospects for pursuing re-election next year.

Netanyahu denied the latest allegations. But his fate now lies in the hands of his attorney general, who will decide in the coming months whether the prime minister should stand trial on a host of corruption allegations that could play a central role in next year's election campaign.

In a scathing attack on police investigators in a speech on Sunday, Netanyahu called the investigation a "witch hunt" that was "tainted from the start."

"Israel is a law-abiding country. And in a law-abiding country police recommendations have no legal weight," he told his Likud party at a Hannukah candle-lighting ceremony. Most of his half-hour holiday speech went to dismissing the allegations, and the boisterous crowd of hundreds of party members rallied behind him.

Sunday's decision followed a lengthy investigation into a case involving Netanyahu's relationship with Shaul Elovitch, the controlling shareholder of Israel's telecom giant Bezeq.

Police said they found sufficient evidence that confidants of Netanyahu promoted regulatory changes worth hundreds of millions of dollars to Bezeq. In exchange, they believe Netanyahu used his connections with Elovitch to receive positive press coverage on Bezeq's popular news site Walla.

In a statement, police said the investigation concluded that Netanyahu and Elovitch engaged in a "bribe-based relationship."

Police said they believed there was sufficient evidence to charge Netanyahu and his wife Sara with accepting bribes, fraud and breach of trust. They also recommended charges be brought against Elovitch, members of his family and members of his Bezeq management team.

Police have already recommended indicting Netanyahu on corruption charges in two other cases. One involves accepting gifts from billionaire friends, and the second revolves around alleged offers of advantageous legislation for a major newspaper in return for favorable coverage.

The prime minister has denied any wrongdoing.

"The police recommendations regarding me and my wife don't surprise anyone," Netanyahu said in a statement. "These recommendations were decided upon and leaked even before the investigation began."

The police recommendations do not have any immediate impact on Netanyahu. They go to his hand-picked attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, who will review the material and make the final decision on whether to press charges.

That decision will have a great impact on Netanyahu's future. Israeli law is unclear about whether an indicted prime minister would have to step down. But at the minimum, a trial would put great pressure on Netanyahu, who has been in office for nearly a decade, to step aside.

Israel must hold its next election by November 2019. But Israeli governments rarely last their full terms.

Netanyahu last month was nearly forced to call elections after a key partner withdrew from his coalition to protest a cease-fire with the Hamas militant group in Gaza. Netanyahu now leads a coalition with a razor-thin 61 seat majority in the 120-seat parliament.

With his Likud Party firmly behind him and his remaining coalition partners remaining silent, there does not seem to be any immediate threat to the government.

Mandelblit's office has not said when he will issue his decision. Most analysts expect him to take several months to review the material.

Reuven Hazan, a political scientist at Hebrew University, said Netanyahu will likely try to push forward elections before Mandelblit decides whether to indict. Netanyahu holds a solid lead in all opinion polls, and a victory would make it more difficult for Mandelblit to indict and potentially force out a newly re-elected leader.

"He'll send a message to the attorney general that everyone knew about these three police reports and they still voted for him and want him in power," Hazan said. That would force the attorney general "to seriously reconsider his decision," he said.

The Bezeq case, known as Case 4000, is the most serious of which Netanyahu has been accused. Two of his top confidants have turned state witnesses and are believed to have provided police with incriminating evidence.

Netanyahu held the government's communications portfolio until last year and oversaw regulation in the field. Former journalists at the Walla news site have attested to being pressured to refrain from negative reporting of Netanyahu.

Opposition lawmakers called on Netanyahu to resign.

"The prime minister has no moral mandate to keep his seat and must resign today. Israel must go to elections," said Tamar Zandberg, head of the dovish Meretz party.

But Netanyahu's colleagues in the ruling Likud Party lined up behind him, attacking outgoing Police Commissioner Roni Alsheikh for releasing the recommendation on his last day on the job.

The appointment of Alsheikh's potential successor is being held up after a government-appointed committee rejected his candidacy, and Netanyahu has repeatedly criticized the police as the investigations into his behavior have mounted.

Micky Zohar, a Likud lawmaker, sarcastically called the police report Alsheikh's "parting gift" to Netanyahu.

Netanyahu and his wife have long had reputations for being overindulgent and out of touch with common Israelis.

Sara Netanyahu went on trial in October on fraud and breach of trust charges for allegedly spending roughly $100,000 of government funds on private meals at the prime minister's official residence, even as there was a full-time chef on staff.

In 2016, a court ruled she abused an employee and awarded the man $42,000 in damages. Other former employees have accused her of mistreatment, charges the Netanyahus have vehemently denied.-------------------UN: Aid mission driver wounded by gunfire in eastern Syria





Gunmen opened fire at the convoy of a joint humanitarian assessment mission in eastern Syria, the United Nations said Saturday, wounding a local driver in one of the country's most remote areas where fighting against Islamic State militants has displaced thousands.

The attack on Thursday complicated an already dire situation, where a lack of security in the area has made delivering assistance to at least 6,000 displaced people unsustainable.

Fadwa Baroud, of the Office of the U.N. resident coordinator, said the driver is recovering from gunshot wounds. Two gunmen on a motorcycle opened fire at the clearly marked convoy about 50 kilometers (30 miles) from where the U.S.-led coalition and local Syrian fighters are battling militants in their last pocket, in eastern Deir el-Zour province.

The convoy was dispatched to assess dire humanitarian conditions due to the escalation in fighting.

Baroud said 6,000 people have been displaced since October and an estimated 7,000-10,000 others remain in the IS-held Hajin enclave.

"We have been able to provide assistance to the 6,000 IDPs however, insecurity in the area limits our ability to sustain the response," she said.

The last pocket of IS in eastern Syria lies along the border with Iraq and on the eastern banks of the Euphrates River. The U.S.-led coalition and its local allies, the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, launched an offensive in September to dislodge the militants from the area.

But the offensive has dragged on, and activists have reported a large number of civilian casualties as militants prevent them from leaving the area.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said dozens of families managed to escape Friday, using waterways across the river which were formed after heavy rains in recent days. The militants have previously executed people for attempting, or aided others, to escape.

The violence, including clashes between the SDF and the militants as well as coalition airstrikes, have left at least 51 civilians, including 19 children, killed in one week, the Observatory said. Airstrikes hit a makeshift prison and hospital in Shafaa and Kishmeh, two IS-controlled villages, late Tuesday, killing 38 including fighters and prisoners, the Observatory reported.

Baroud said the U.N. was informed of the reports.

"The United Nations continues to receive disturbing reports of hostilities impacting the civilian population in south-east (Deir el-Zour). We continue to call upon all parties to protect civilians and to facilitate humanitarian access to the affected population," she said.

A spokesman for the U.S.-led Coalition, Col. Sean Ryan, said the coalition has targeted and destroyed what he called IS "command and control facilities" in Kishmeh, killing four militants.

"We conducted the strikes on (IS) fighters after an in-depth monitoring of the building to reduce the risk to civilians. We reject any (IS) propaganda claims on striking an (IS) prison," Ryan said in an email to The Associated Press Friday.-------------------125 women, girls raped, whipped and clubbed in South Sudan





One hundred and twenty-five women and girls have been raped, whipped and clubbed in attacks so shocking that some aid workers in South Sudan say they are left speechless.

Doctors Without Borders on Saturday said the "dramatic increase" in sexual violence occurred over 10 days, between Nov. 19 and Thursday, as the women and girls walked to a food distribution site in Bentiu in Unity state. By contrast, the medical charity's Bentiu clinic treated 104 survivors of sexual assault in the first 10 months of this year.

Sexual violence has been widespread in South Sudan's civil war, and even under a recent peace deal humanitarians have warned of higher rates of sexual assault as growing numbers of desperate people try to reach aid.

A midwife with Doctors Without Borders who treated some of the survivors said those targeted include pregnant and elderly women and girls as young as 10.

"What is happening since last week is indescribable. I haven't got words for it," Ruth Okello told The Associated Press. The women were robbed of clothing and shoes, and even their ration cards for food distribution were seized and destroyed, the aid group said.

The United Nations mission chief, David Shearer, said the "abhorrent" attacks were carried out by young men in military uniforms and civilian clothing. The U.N. has increased patrols in the area and launched an investigation while urging local authorities to hold the attackers accountable.

South Sudan's government was not immediately available for comment.

The U.N.'s World Food Program said that while there was a distribution underway in Bentiu for displaced people, the women and girls weren't due to receive food assistance until the following week. WFP said it was looking into whether it can move distribution sites closer to communities in the area.

A new report by the United Nations panel of experts monitoring sanctions on South Sudan says it remains "extremely concerned" about the continued high level of conflict-related sexual violence, despite the peace deal signed in September.

___

Follow Africa news at https://twitter.com/AP_Africa-------------------Wedding guests cover eyes in support of blind bride: 'Everyone really loved it,' she says





They say that love is blind. But nowhere was that more true than at a recent wedding in Queensland, Australia.

Many of the guests at the wedding of Steph Agnew, 32, and Robbie Campbell, 49, wore black blindfolds as a gesture of solidarity with Agnew, because the bride is blind.

“It was a joint idea about how we could be more tactile for me and how we could raise awareness about visual impairment,” Agnew told website Nine.com.au.

“Everyone really loved it, it was definitely a bit different for everyone,” she said.

Agnew has not been able to see for four years because of a genetic condition called Cone-Rod Dystrophy, in which the cells in one's retina slowly deteriorate, MamaMia.com.au reported.

Her mother Linda closed her eyes during the ceremony because she too lost her eyesight to the same condition, the report said.

"We wanted our guests to be able to really be present and hear our vows the same way my mum and I did, everyone loved it and gave such great feedback about how special the day was." — Steph Agnew, bride

“We wanted our guests to be able to really be present and hear our vows the same way my mom and I did. Everyone loved it and gave such great feedback about how special the day was," she said, according to the report.

Agnew is a massage therapist from South Melbourne, while Campbell is a police officer, Nine.com.au reported.-------------------Australia raised detained refugee with Thai authorities





Australian officials have raised with Thai authorities the plight of an Australia-based refugee professional soccer player who was detained in Bangkok and fears deportation to his native Bahrain, Australia's foreign minister said Friday.

Rights groups are urging Thai authorities not to deport Hakeem Ali Mohamed Ali AlAraib to his homeland, where he faces imprisonment for what his supporters say are political reasons. AlAraib was detained at a Bangkok airport on Tuesday.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said AlAraib, 25, was accepted as a refugee and resettled in the Australian city of Melbourne last year, but is not an Australian citizen. Australia can demand consular access to its citizens detained overseas.

"He's not an Australian citizen ... and he's also traveling on U.N. papers. So we have raised that matter. Our post in Thailand is aware of it and is following up on that," Payne told a reporter at a Sydney foreign policy think tank.

Payne did not directly respond when asked whether AlAraib is at risk of being deported to Bahrain.

Her department later said in a statement that Australian embassy officials in Bangkok were in direct contact with Thai authorities regarding AlAraib. The department would not make further comment due to privacy obligations.

The Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy says AlAraib was tortured after a 2012 arrest and fled in 2014 to Australia, which granted him political asylum. He had played for Bahrain's national soccer team and now plays for Melbourne's Pascoe Vale Football Club. He has been publicly critical of Bahrain's royal family's alleged involvement in sports scandals.

The London-based group says AlAraib was detained at the Bangkok airport on the basis of an Interpol notice issued at Bahrain's request that says he is sought because he was sentenced in absentia in 2014 to 10 years in prison for allegedly vandalizing a police station, a charge he denies. He says he was playing a match that was televised live when the alleged crime occurred, but when his family reached out to Bahrain's soccer association to confirm his alibi, their requests went unanswered.

Rights groups say the Interpol Red Notice — which is a request to locate and provisionally arrest an individual pending extradition — violates the international police organization's policy that such notices will not be issued "if the status of refugee or asylum-seeking has been confirmed."

No comment was immediately available from Thai officials.

Australia's SBS News said AlAraib told them on Thursday that he fears being returned to Bahrain.

"It's very dangerous there (for me). ... In Bahrain, they want to kill me," he said. "I told (Thai Immigration) I (didn't) come from Bahrain, I have an Australian travel document ... Bahrain is not my country now, I live in Australia."-------------------Thousands of Australian students protest climate change





next Image 1 of 2

prev Image 2 of 2

Thousands of schoolchildren across Australia skipped classes Friday to attend rallies demanding the government act on climate change.

But Resources Minister Matt Canavan said the students should be in school learning about science and mining, rather than discovering how to get on welfare.

The coordinated rallies Friday were held in close to 30 cities and towns and were inspired by a 15-year-old Swedish girl's activism.

In Sydney, more than 1,000 children, most in school uniforms, chanted slogans, while similar numbers blocked streets outside the Victoria state parliament in Melbourne.

The rallies were inspired by Greta Thunberg, who protests every Friday outside Sweden's parliament, demanding leaders do more about climate change.

Sydney student Siniva Esera said Australia needs to be the big brother to the low-lying Pacific islands, including her relatives on the Tokelau atolls.

"Our prime minister thinks we should be in school right now, and maybe we should," the Chifley College Senior Campus student told the Sydney protest. "But how can I just sit by and not do anything to protect the future of this planet, and as my family on the islands worry about the rising sea level?"

Forest Lodge Primary school captain Lucie Atkin Bolton said she'd learned in class that leaders need to look after everybody and take responsibility when things go wrong.

"I wish I lived in a country where our adults, especially our politicians, actually cared about my future," the 11-year-old said.

Canavan, the resources minister, said he's on the side of science and wants Australia to develop all energy sources, including solar and coal. He said he'd rather the kids learn about mining and science.

"These are the type of things that excite young children and we should be great at as a nation," he told Sydney radio station 2GB. "The best thing you'll learn about going to a protest is how to join the dole queue."-------------------Refugee soccer player sought by Bahrain detained in Thailand





Rights groups are urging Thai authorities not to deport a Bahraini professional soccer player to his homeland, where he faces imprisonment for what his supporters say are political reasons.

The Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy says Hakeem Ali Mohamed Ali AlAraib was tortured after a 2012 arrest and fled in 2014 to Australia, which granted him political asylum last year. He had played for Bahrain's national soccer team and now plays for Melbourne's Pascoe Vale Football Club. He has been publicly critical of Bahrain's royal family's alleged involvement in sports scandals.

The London-based group says Hakeem was detained Tuesday at Bangkok's international airport on the basis of an Interpol notice issued at Bahrain's request that says he is sought because he was sentenced in absentia in 2014 to 10 years in prison for allegedly vandalizing a police station, a charge he denies. He says he was playing a match that was televised live when the alleged crime occurred, but when his family reached out to Bahrain's soccer association to confirm his alibi, their requests went unanswered.

Rights groups say Interpol's Red Notice — which is a request to locate and provisionally arrest an individual pending extradition — violates the international police organization's policy that the notices will not be issued "if the status of refugee or asylum-seeking has been confirmed."

A visa granted by the Australian government is supposed to allow Hakeem to remain in Australia indefinitely and to travel to and from Australia without having to travel to Bahrain, the country he has sought protection from.

"Hakeem is a refugee accepted by Australia, so Thailand should do the right thing by sending him back to Australia on the next flight," said Sunai Phasuk, Human Rights Watch's senior researcher for Thailand. "Under no circumstances should Thai immigration authorities hand him over to Bahrain, where he faces 10 years in prison on a politically motivated conviction and a repeat of the torture he experienced before he fled. Sending him back to Bahrain would be a heartless act that violates Thailand's obligations to protect refugees and will surely result in global condemnation."

No comment was immediately available from Thai or Australian officials.

Hakeem has said he was blindfolded and had his legs beaten while he was held in Bahrain. He said he believed he was targeted for arrest because of his Shiite faith and because his brother was politically active in Bahrain. Bahrain has a Shiite majority but is ruled by a Sunni monarchy.

According to the latest U.S. State Department's Country Report on Human Rights Practices, Bahrain's most significant human rights issues in 2017 "included reports of arbitrary or unlawful killings by security forces; allegations of torture of detainees and prisoners; harsh and potentially life-threatening conditions of detention; arbitrary arrest and detention; political prisoners; unlawful interference with privacy; restrictions on freedom of expression, including by the press and via the internet; restriction of academic and cultural events; restrictions on the rights of association and assembly; allegations of restrictions on freedom of movement, including arbitrary citizenship revocation;" as well as limits on Shiite political participation.

"Hakeem made brave interventions to expose the role of powerful members of the Bahraini royal family in sporting scandals," said Sayed Ahmed Alwadaei, director of the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy. "Interpol has violated its obligations, as Hakeem holds refugee status and returning him to Bahrain puts him at significant risk of torture and imprisonment."

Australia's SBS News said Hakeem told them on Thursday that he fears being returned to Bahrain.

"It's very dangerous there (for me). ... In Bahrain, they want to kill me," he said. "I told (Thai Immigration) I (didn't) come from Bahrain, I have an Australian travel document ... Bahrain is not my country now, I live in Australia."

___

This story has been corrected to attribute information to the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy.-------------------The week in pictures, Nov. 24-Nov. 30





The week in pictures, Nov. 24-Nov. 30

Take a look at and enjoy some of the most evocative, momentous images captured around the world in the past seven days.-------------------Migrant caravan shelter shut down over 'bad sanitary conditions' as hundreds move to new facility





Mexican authorities shut down a crowded, unsanitary and mud-filled shelter at a sports complex, moving the remaining migrants who want to enter the U.S. to a new, government-run facility that's further from the border.

Thousands of Central American migrants, mostly Hondurans, have joined caravans in recent weeks in an effort to speed across Mexico to request refuge at the border with America, provoking the ire of President Trump, who frequently urged Mexico to keep them away from the border and previously ordered thousands of U.S. troops to the area.

Officials in Tijuana cited "bad sanitary conditions" as the reason for closing the sports complex shelter. Mud, lice and respiratory infections were rampant in the space that holds up to 6,000 people, officials said, while many areas were filled with trash.

“It’s a much better place, and all of the help and government services will be there,” Edgar Corzo Sosa, a spokesman for Mexico’s National Human Rights Commission, told the Washington Post of the new space.

Still, some of the migrants were reportedly wary of the Mexican government's efforts.

“People are distrustful that it’s an immigration trick, that it’s not what they say it is and that they will really be deported,” Amelia Frank-Vitale, a doctoral candidate in anthropology at the University of Michigan and an immigration expert who has traveled with migrant caravans for years, told the Washington Post. “It’s happened before in southern Mexico.”

Tijuana's Mayor Juan Manuel Gastélum previously called the migrant caravan a “humanitarian crisis,” telling Fox News that he needed federal assistance to help fund shelter for the migrants.

“I’m not going to break public services to solve this problem,” the Tijuana mayor said.

Marlen Gallegos, 48, told the Post that she was initially worried by rumors floating around the sports complex that anyone who went to the new shelter would eventually be deported.

She later learned that was not true.

“It’s as they said it would be,” said Gallegos, who is from Honduras and planned to wait on her application for U.S. asylum from the new camp. “I’ll look for some work around here in the meantime.”

On Saturday, in one of his first acts in office, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador signed an agreement with his counterparts from three Central American countries to establish a development plan to stem the flow of migrants seeking asylum in the U.S.

Meanwhile, a U.S. judge on Friday refused to immediately allow the Trump administration to enforce a ban on asylum for any immigrants who illegally cross the U.S.-Mexico border.

Judge Jon Tigar rejected the Justice Department's request to suspend his earlier order temporarily blocking the ban. The administration had still not shown that the ban was legal, or that any harm would come from continuing to implement existing immigration laws, Tigar said in his order.

At issue is President Trump's Nov. 9 proclamation that barred anyone who crossed the U.S.-Mexico border between official ports of entry from seeking asylum. Trump issued the proclamation in response to caravans of migrants approaching the border.

The Trump administration has indicated that it will appeal Tigar's ruling.

Fox News' Griff Jenkins and the Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------Macron tours damaged Arc de Triomphe after Paris riots





French President Emmanuel Macron visited the graffiti-damaged Arc de Triomphe monument and held an emergency meeting on security Sunday, a day after central Paris was hit by France's worst riot in a generation.

Macron, who was meeting with his prime minister and interior and environment ministers, has vowed that those responsible for the violence and the damages will pay for their actions. His tour of France's beloved monument came just hours after he flew back from the G-20 summit in Argentina.

Macron paid tribute to the Unknown Soldier from World War I whose tomb is under the monument. He then headed to a nearby avenue where activists wearing yellow jackets had torched cars, smashed windows, looted stores and battled police on Saturday. There he met with firefighters, police officers and restaurant owners.

Paris police said Sunday that 133 people had been injured and 412 had been arrested as protesters trashed the streets of the capital during a demonstration Saturday against rising taxes and the high cost of living.

Charred cars, broken windows and downed fences from the riot littered many of the city's most popular tourist areas on Sunday, including major avenues near the Arc de Triomphe, streets around the famed Champs-Elysees Avenue, and the Tuileries garden. Graffiti was also sprayed on many stores and buildings.

Activists wearing yellow jackets had torched cars, smashed windows, looted stores, threw rocks at police and tagged the Arc de Triomphe with multi-colored graffiti. French police responded with tear gas and water cannon, closing down dozens of streets and Metro stations as they tried to contain the riot.

Police said 23 police officers were among the injured and 378 of the arrested have been put in police custody.

By Sunday morning, Paris city employees were cleaning up the graffiti on the Arc de Triomphe. One slogan read: "Yellow jackets will triumph" — a reference to the fluorescent yellow vests that protesters wore to demand relief for France's beleaguered workers.

Government spokesman Benjamin Griveaux said Saturday's violence was due to extremists who hijacked the protest, people who came "to loot, break and hit police forces." He was asked why thousands of French police couldn't prevent the damage, especially to the Arc de Triomphe.

"Yesterday we made a choice ... to protect people before material goods," Griveaux told French broadcaster BFM TV.

It was the third straight weekend of clashes in Paris involving activists dressed in the yellow vests of a new protest movement and France's worst urban violence since at least 2005. The scene in Paris contrasted sharply with protests elsewhere in France on Saturday that were mostly peaceful.

"It's difficult to reach the end of the month. People work and pay a lot of taxes and we are fed up," said Rabah Mendez, a protester marched peacefully Saturday in Paris.

The demonstrators say Macron's government does not care about the problems of ordinary people. The grassroots protests began Nov. 17 with motorists upset over a fuel tax hike but now involve a broad range of demands related to France's high cost of living.

Macron, speaking in Buenos Aires before he flew home, welcomed the views of the protesters but said there was no place for violence in public discourse.

"(Violence) has nothing to do with the peaceful expression of a legitimate anger" and "no cause justifies" attacks on police or pillaging stores and burning buildings, Macron said.-------------------Pope lights candle to promote peace in Syria





The pope has lit a candle decorated with the faces of Syrian children suffering from war as part of a global campaign calling for peace in the Middle Eastern country.

The pope told believers gathered in St. Peter's Square on the first Sunday of the Advent season leading up to Christmas that the season "is a time of hope." The pontiff called for a halt to the civil war in Syria, which has been underway for nearly eight years.

Lifting the candle to the window, the pope urged that "these flames of hope disperse the darkness of war."

The lighting launched a global campaign for Syria, which the organization Aid to the Church in Need said involved over 50,000 children from war-torn Syrian cities.-------------------Sword-wielding jewelry store employees fend off would-be robbers in Canada





Employees at a Canadian jewelry store took matters into their own hands and fended off would-be robbers with swords during a midday burglary attempt, police said.

The employees at Ashok Jewelers in Mississauga, about 15 miles southwest of Toronto, were captured on video on Nov. 21 confronting four people who attempted to force their way into the store just after 12 p.m., Peel police said. The would-be robbers smashed a store window and one person was spotted trying to climb inside when employees charged at him with sabre-style swords.

"When we saw them coming in, that's when we really took action and we rushed them," the storeowner’s son told CBC News. "They had a gun, but my main concern was, I wanted them to not get into my store.”

"I was willing to do anything to keep them out. Even if it meant me getting shot, not a problem,” he added.

The four men fled the store in a dark-colored SUV empty-handed. Police said none of the employees were injured in the incident.

The storeowner’s son said the swords were gifts from a family friend. He added that the weapons were “good luck” for the store.

Authorities are still searching for the four suspects and urged the public to think about safety first before confronting attackers.-------------------Putin blames Ukrainian leader for naval conflict





-------------------November was a deadly month for US troops in Afghanistan





-------------------Resources running low as migrants flood Tijuana





-------------------Mom and baby killed by grizzly bear in remote cabin





-------------------Pope laughs when little boy runs onto stage at Vatican





-------------------Enormous bovine goes viral, saved from the slaughterhouse





-------------------More migrants arrive at overcrowded Tijuana shelter





-------------------Watch Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network Online





-------------------FOX News Talk





-------------------The Next Revolution





The Next Revolution with Steve Hilton focuses on the impact of the populist movement, both in the United States and throughout the world. TNR takes an in-depth look at several different issues impacting the government and society.-------------------Justice with Judge Jeanine





Justice with Judge Jeanine

Looking for 'Justice'? You've come to the right place. Judge Jeanine is on the case-------------------Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo





-------------------The Greg Gutfeld Show





-------------------The Next Revolution with Steve Hilton





-------------------The Story with Martha MacCallum





-------------------Full Episodes: War Stories





Full Episodes: War Stories

Complete episodes of the series that reveals the courage and sacrifice of the Americans who serve in our nation's military-------------------Cohen's guilty pleas proof that Russians had 'leverage' over Trump, Dem rep says





Rep. Jerry Nadler said Sunday that the revelations from President Trump’s former personal attorney are proof that Russia had “leverage” over Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign.

Speaking on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” Nadler, D-N.Y. – who is poised to become the next chairman of the House Judiciary Committee – said that Michael Cohen’s admission last week about his role in securing a Trump Tower in Moscow during the time of the GOP presidential primary shows that Trump was a compromised candidate, and now president, and that that should be worrying to the American public.

"There certainly was leverage during the campagin period and until recently, because they knew that he was lying that he had major business dealings with Cohen on his behalf during the campaign and that he was lying about that -- there may be other things that they know that give them leverage," Nadler said.

He added: "The fact that he was lying to the American people about doing business in Russia and the Kremlin knew he was lying gave the Kremlin a hold over him," Nadler said. "One question we have now is: Does the Kremlin still have a hold over him because of other lies that they know about?"

Nadler’s comments come days after Cohen pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about negotiations he says he had on Trump's behalf for a real estate deal in Moscow.

Though he told lawmakers the talks were done by January 2016, he admitted they actually lasted as late as June — after Trump had secured the Republican nomination and after Russians had penetrated Democratic email accounts for communications later released through WikiLeaks. Cohen also said he had briefed Trump and members of his family about the project's progress.

Cohen said he lied out of loyalty to Trump, who insisted throughout the campaign that he had no business dealings in Russia, and to be consistent with his political messaging.

Though the Cohen plea didn't directly connect to Trump's campaign, other cases have.

George Papadopoulos, a former Trump campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about April 2016 conversations with a Maltese professor who told him Russians had "dirt" on Hillary Clinton in the form of "thousands of emails." Papadopoulos told the FBI he wasn't part of the campaign when he encountered the professor, Joseph Mifsud, even though he had joined weeks earlier.

His lawyers said Papadopoulos, now serving a 14-day prison sentence, "lied to save his professional aspirations and preserve a perhaps misguided loyalty to his master."

Trump's former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, is being sentenced later this month after admitting lying to the FBI by saying he didn't discuss sanctions against Russia during the transition with Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the U.S. at the time.

That deception was flagged for the White House in January 2017 by Obama administration holdover Sally Yates, who as acting attorney general told White House counsel Don McGahn that officials were misleading the public by falsely declaring Flynn hadn't discussed sanctions.

Flynn's guilty plea was especially significant in that it made clear other transition officials were aware of his Kislyak conversations and discussed with him what he would say. And while Flynn was fired in February 2017, his importance to Trump became evident when ex-FBI Director James Comey said Trump had encouraged him during a private meeting that same month to end an investigation into Flynn.

This week, prosecutors accused former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort of lying even after his guilty plea, though they have not released specifics regarding the alleged lies.

"We have a president who lies incessantly to the American people about big matters and small matters, who surrounds himself with people who lie incessantly to the American people,” Nadler said. “The key fact now is that the time that he can get away with lying to the American people all the time and evading accountability is coming to an end.”

Sen. John Barrasso, R- Wyo., who also appeared on “Meet The Press,” downplayed Cohen’s guilty plea and his revelations about Trump’s role in the process.

"The president is an international businessman. I’m not surprised he was doing international business,” Barrasso said. “Cohen is in trouble for lying to Congress, not anything related to the campaign or Russian influence.”

Barrasso defended the president against fears from Democrats that Special Counsel Robert Mueller would be fired and slammed Democrats for their calls that the government shouldn’t be funded without an assurance that the Mueller investigation will be able to continue.

"They’ve been crying wolf for two years that Mueller was going to be fired,” he said. “Didn’t happen, not going to happen.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------Michelle Obama says Lean In is 's---' that doesn't work during book tour stop in New York





Speaking Saturday night at the 19,000-seat Barclays Center in Brooklyn as part of her promotional book tour, former first lady Michelle Obama shocked attendees by comparing a prominent piece of feminist self-help advice to "s---" that often "doesn't work."

Obama told the sold-out crowd that women can't experience equality in both their professional and personal lives "at the same time," calling the idea a "lie" and arguing that "marriage still ain't equal, y'all."

Then, in an unguarded moment that sent the crowd and social media ablaze, she added: "And it’s not always enough to lean in, because that s--- doesn’t work all the time."

Obama, seemingly flustered, quickly remarked, "I forgot where I was for a moment" as attendees laughed and applauded.

"I thought we were at home, y’all," she added. "I was gettin’ real comfortable up in here. Alright, I’m back now. Sometimes that stuff doesn’t work.”

Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg popularized the "lean in" concept with her 2013 book, "Lean In: Women, Work and the Will to Lead," which argues that women should take assertive action to overcome workplace inequities and obtain leadership roles. Critics have charged that the book downplays sexism and places blame on women. Sandberg also founded the website Leanin.org.

MICHELLE OBAMA LUNCHTIME VISIT SURPRISES NEW YORK GIRLS

The rest of the event, which featured poet Elizabeth Alexander discussing both current events and personal topics on-stage with Obama, proceeded without incident. Obama memorialized President George H.W. Bush, who died on Friday, and told Alexander that "marriage is hard work."

Concluding the event, Obama told an anecdote about a visit by children to the White House, when one child hugged the president and said he had saved her life by being caring.

“That’s why Barack and I are careful about what we say," the former first lady said. "Except when we are in an arena full of people.”

Liberal commentator Touré, writing on Twitter, called Obama's unusual slip-up a "cute moment" and said the moment had "overshadowed" her other remarks because society has a "fetish" for "civility over all else."

Ten percent of proceeds from tickets at the Saturday night event — priced at $129 to $500 — are going to New York community groups.

Obama's "Becoming," which came out Nov. 13, is selling at a pace rarely seen for a political memoir, or any nonfiction book. Combined hardcover, e-book and audio sales in the U.S. and Canada topped 2 million copies in the first 15 days, Crown Publishing announced Friday.

By comparison, former first lady Hillary Clinton's memoir "Living History" needed a month to sell 1 million copies. Former President George W. Bush's "Decision Points" took several weeks to reach 2 million. Former President Bill Clinton's "My Life" quickly sold 1 million copies but took far longer to hit 2 million.

Obama wrote in her memoir that she assumed Trump was "grandstanding" when he announced his presidential run in 2015. She expresses disbelief over how so many women would choose a "misogynist" over Hillary Clinton, "an exceptionally qualified female candidate." She remembers how her body "buzzed with fury" after seeing the infamous "Access Hollywood" tape in the weeks prior to Election Day.

She also accuses Trump of using body language to "stalk" Clinton during an election debate. She writes of Trump following Clinton around the stage, standing nearby and "trying to diminish her presence."

Trump's message, according to Obama, in words which appear in the book in darkened print: "I can hurt you and get away with it."

Interest in the sold-out Barclays evening was so great that Obama is set to return there on Dec. 19 for a discussion moderated by actress Sarah Jessica Parker. Former first lady Hillary Clinton and husband Bill Clinton are also in the midst of a book tour -- although early events have reportedly featured large swaths of empty seats going for as little as $15.

ANALYSIS: ARE BILL AND HILLARY CLINTON FINALLY RUNNING OUT OF BATTERIES?

Sandberg, once a progressive hero, has faced calls to resign from left-wing groups in recent weeks after a New York Times report that Facebook had paid a public relations firm to investigate liberal billionaire George Soros, on the heels of his major speech trashing the social media giant as a "menace" to society at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

Facebook has said it was looking into whether Soros was planning to short the company's stock. Soros has owned shares of Facebook this year through his investment fund, according to publicly available documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The hedge-fund billionaire has also given money to one of the ten organizations that support Freedom from Facebook, an activist group that wants to see the company broken up by spinning off its various business units.

Fox News' James Rogers and The Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------Watch Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network Online





-------------------Swamp Watch: The swamp in the White House





-------------------Heather MacDonald warns US colleges are breeding hate





-------------------Trump urges McConnell to act on crime bill





-------------------Former Kansas City Chiefs running back dropped for lying about assault





-------------------Media divide on caravan violence





-------------------Uncommon December tornado touches down in Illinois





-------------------Dan Quayle pays tribute to former President George H.W. Bush





-------------------Dick Cheney and James Baker remember George H.W. Bush





-------------------Harvard Law student told to leave apartment for owning gun





-------------------Jeb Bush posts first video in series honoring his father





-------------------How did we get so far from Bush 41's example of unity?





-------------------Dr. Marc Siegel on the Presidents Bush: There is only one now, but the legacy of the father lives on





Back in 2012, when I first told people I was going to Texas to ride mountain bikes with the wounded war fighters and President Bush, I frequently encountered the reply “Which President Bush?” This was when the elder Bush was already close to 90, which gives you an idea how robust and vital he was, even with Parkinson’s Disease already significantly impairing him. The former president inspired us all in later years with his will to live and never giving up.

In fact, this was one of the major themes of the bike ride, with President Bush 43 learning from his beloved father a philosophy of toughness mixed with judiciousness and kindness. It is why the younger Bush has granted me the honor of riding with him and our war heroes every year, once I exhibited the mental toughness that he so highly values. Extreme sports meant a lot to both Bushes. The themes of falling and getting back on the bike and never giving up and attacking an imposing hill one part at a time are themes for life that both President Bushes embraced.

In 2015, after his book “41: A Portrait of my Father” came out, President Bush 43 spoke to me in an interview on his ranch about the strong impression it made on him when he thought his father was about to die only to find him sky diving from a helicopter a few months later. “The will to live is very important for your health,” President Bush 43 said to me. “I think the idea of a guy who can’t walk and near death jumping out of a helicopter at the age of 90 is a pretty clear example of the desire to live to the fullest.”

Mortality wins inevitably, even against the toughest fighter, and now President Bush 41 is gone.

But President Bush 43 continues on, impacted still by the memory of his father, and his mother, whom he lost earlier this year. Pam Jackson, Bush’s bike mechanic, told me that she last rode mountain bikes with him around Thanksgiving, She called him “the distinguished gentleman,” and said that “I stayed at the back and tried to keep him in view.”

Sadly, when I go to Texas next year for the Warrior 100K ride, no one will ask me which President Bush I am joining.

I’m sure he also retains his joie de vivre and famous sense of humor despite losing both parents in one year. When I came back the second time to the W100K bike ride, President Bush 43 quickly ribbed me about all the falls I’d taken the first time. Whenever he thought he’d gone a step too far, he’d quickly whisper “just kidding.” This is part of the decency and moral compass that both Bushes have been known for.

There is only one President Bush now, but the legacy of the father lives on. For some he will be remembered most as a war hero, for how as a young navy pilot he overcame a harrowing plane crash in 1944 during WWII and miraculously swam to safety in a life raft and was finally rescued by a submarine. For others it was his efforts as vice president and then president to end the Cold War and his successful 1991 Gulf War against Saddam Hussein.

For me, as a physician, it was his heroic war against the side effects of Vascular Parkinsonism which included frequent bouts of bronchitis and pneumonia, the ignominity of drooling and being bound to a wheelchair. He soldiered on, and became a role model for the chronically ill everywhere.

His will to survive was minted during that plane crash. The narrow miss where others didn’t make it clearly caused President Bush 41 to further value life and provided him with the toughness needed for battles later on. He lost the final medical battle as we all do eventually, but he fought with honor and dignity.

Sadly, when I go to Texas next year for the Warrior 100K ride, no one will ask me which President Bush I am joining.-------------------Brett Favre tricked into recording anti-Semitic video





Brett Favre says he was duped into recording an anti-Semitic video by a group posing as a veterans organization.

The Hall of Fame hurler was paid $500 to make the recording riddled with coded hate speech and conspiracy theories for the Cameo service, which pays celebrities to record short, personalized video messages.

Posing as a veterans organization, hate groups the Handsome Truth and the Goyim Defense League paid Favre $500 to read a statement that included several veiled anti-Semitic remarks.

“Brett Favre here with a shout-out to the Handsome Truth and the GDL boys,” Favre says in the video, according to BuzzFeed News.

“You guys are patriots in my eyes. So keep waking them up and don’t let the small get you down. Keep fighting too and don’t ever forget the USS Liberty and the men and women who died on that day. God bless and take care.”

PACKERS PART WAYS WITH COACH

“Waking them up” is a reference to anti-Semitic indoctrination, while “the small” is an epithet referring to yarmulkes, BuzzFeed reported. Israeli fighter jets accidentally fired on the USS Liberty in 1967, believing it was an Egyptian craft, and “Remember the USS Liberty” has become a rallying cry for conspiratorial bigots who believe the attack was intentional despite statements from both the U.S. and Israeli governments otherwise, according to BuzzFeed.

The anti-Semitic groups wrote the script and submitted it to Favre via Cameo — carefully crafting the message so it wouldn’t raise any red flags with Favre, the outlet reported.

“Here’s the deal, guys, they can reject it if they don’t like it, right,” Handsome Truth said during a livestream planning session, according to BuzzFeed. “So we were trying to get it, like — we wanted to be cryptic enough to where they would say it.”

Favre later realized he’d been had and apologized — after the groups posted the clip to social media implying that he supported their cause.

“A few days later, I was distressed to learn that the request came from an anti-Semitic group that reposted my video with comments implying that I endorsed their mission. Nothing could be further from the truth. I am therefore donating my $500 Cameo fee to Charities supporting their fight against hate and bigotry,” he said in a Facebook post Saturday.

“Like most Americans, I am sickened by what these groups stand for and concerned about their role in fueling today’s negative political climate. I thought I was creating a message to support the brave men and women of our military forces. Had I understood the source of the request, I never would have fulfilled it. All of us – myself included – need to be vigilant to protect this country from these dangers.”

Click for more from The New York Post-------------------Springsteen says Trump is headed for second term, says democrats don’t speak same language





Bruce Springsteen-- the famous liberal rocker-- believes that President Donald Trump is headed for a second term at the White House.

In a Sunday interview with the British newspaper, The Sunday Times, the 69-year-old singer-songwriter said he hasn’t seen a democratic contender who could effectively win over blue-collar voters by speaking Trump’s language.

“I don’t see anyone out there at the moment … the man who can beat Trump, or the woman who can beat Trump,” Spring told the paper. “You need someone who can speak some of the same language [as Trump] … and the Democrats don’t have an obvious, effective presidential candidate.”

BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN REVEALS MENTAL HEALTH STRUGGLES: 'THE WHEELS CAN COME OFF A LITTLE BIT'

Springsteen expressed his disappointment that there wasn’t a stronger “blue wave” during the November midterms.

“I’d like to have seen a much more full-throated [rejection] of the past two years,” he said. “The country is very divided right now — there are a lot of people drinking the snake oil. So it’s a very difficult time here in the States.”

Springsteen’s comments come less than a week after an interview with Esquire in which he called the president a “deeply damaged at his core” and “dangerous.”

Trump “has no interest in united the country, really, and actually has an interest in doing the opposite and dividing us, which he does on an almost daily basis,” Springsteen told the magazine. “So that’s simply a crime against humanity, as far as I’m concerned.”

When asked by The Times if he’d consider running for president, Springsteen replied. “[N]ot in any way, in any form. I’d be terrible.”-------------------Dolly Parton shocks Jimmy Fallon with racy joke about Jennifer Aniston, her husband





Dolly Parton appeared on the “Tonight Show” where she made host Jimmy Fallon blush enough to hide behind his desk.

The 72-year-old singing legend appeared on the late-night show to promote the music she did for the upcoming Netflix original movie “Dumplin’” starring Jennifer Aniston. Parton explained to the host that she was approached by the former “Friends” star to write original music for the movie.

It’s then that she revealed that her husband, Carl Thomas Dean, has a bit of a crush on Aniston and may have been angling for a wild night with the two celebrity women.

“My husband is crazy about her,” she told the host. “He was more excited that I was going to do a movie with her than he was that I got the chance to write all this music. See, I think he kinda fantasizes, like, a threesome with us.”

Fallon stopped her there by throwing his arms up in the air and stammering. Eventually, he pointed right to the camera and joked “go to bed Carl!”

Parton wasn’t done shocking the host there. She continued: “He can’t even get it out to pee, much less get it up for three.”

With that, Fallon fell to the floor and began to crawl behind his desk. He eventually composed himself as the crowd’s thunderous cheers died down.

You can watch the moment in question in the clip below:-------------------'Good Samaritan' offered to escort woman home, then raped her: NYPD





A man posing as a good Samaritan helped get a drunken woman into a cab after a Brooklyn party, then offered to escort her female pal home — and ended up raping her, cops and sources said Sunday.

The 20-year-old victim was trying to get her boozed-up friend home safely from a Brownsville house party at around 2:20 a.m. Saturday when the suspect approached them near Herzl Street and Dumont Avenue and asked if they needed help, sources said.

The man hailed a taxi for them, loaded the drunken friend into the cab and then offered to walk the remaining woman home, sources said.

But what looked like a good deed took a dark turn when he ushered the woman through Betsy Head Park, where he asked her if she wanted to have sex, sources said.

When she refused, the brute raped her, according to authorities.

He then ran off with the woman’s iPhone and wallet when she let out a scream, sources said.

The victim flagged down a passing driver, who called 911. An ambulance took the woman to an area hospital.

The suspect, described as in his mid-30s to early 40s, had a ponytail, facial hair and a black jacket with an orange lining, cops said.

He was still at large late Sunday, leaving locals on edge — and community leaders decrying the situation.

Activist Tony Herbert said “liberal organizations” that bail out crime suspects without a hard look are at least partly to blame for the city’s dangerous streets. Saturday’s rape suspect has yet to be identified, but Herbert said he was referring to the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights foundation’s recent mass bailout of people arrested.

“They are fighting to get these individuals out of jail, but they are not vetting them,” he told The Post.

“This is a serious concern for us because the most vulnerable in our community, nine times out of 10, are our elders, our young people and particularly, our women,” Herbert said at a press briefing on the attack. “We want the individual who committed this crime . . . arrested immediately.”

Herbert announced a $2,000 reward leading to breaks in the case and urged women in the neighborhood to stay aware of their surroundings.

Home-health attendant Sharon Dickerson, 59, lives nearby and said she was angry.

“If you live in this community and you’re coming home from work, you should be protected by the cops,” she fumed. “It’s unsafe. I’m angry because it can happen to me.”

This story was originally published by the New York Post.-------------------Maryland woman killed after giving money to woman she thought was struggling mom: report





A Maryland woman was fatally stabbed early Sunday after she gave money to a young woman who was carrying a sign that read: “Please Help me feed my Baby,” The Baltimore Sun reported.

Jacquelyn Smith, 52, was in Baltimore when she saw the woman with the sign. Smith was sitting in a passenger's seat inside a car at the time and rolled down the window to give the woman money, the report said. An unidentified man walked up to the window during the interaction and attempted to take Smith’s wallet, the report said.

Police said a man approached the vehicle to thank Smith for giving money but then tried to steal Smith's wallet. He pulled out the knife and stabbed Smith in the chest, the report said. She died at a nearby hospital. Smith was returning from a family gathering. The man and the panhandler fled the scene.

“This was a good Samaritan who saw an individual holding a sign, who appeared to be down on her luck,” Jeremy Silbert, with the Baltimore Police Department, told Fox Baltimore. “So, they stopped the car and gave her money.”

Authorities are searching for the two suspects.-------------------George H.W. Bush’s service dog, Sully, is honored: 'Mission complete'





Bush family spokesman Jim McGrath on Sunday night honored the service dog who accompanied George H.W. Bush during the former president's final months.

“Mission complete,” McGrath tweeted, showing Sully the dog. Sully's Instagram page showed the same photo.

Former President George W. Bush later “regrammed” the photo on his own Instagram, noting: “As much as our family is going to miss this dog, we’re comforted to know he’ll bring the same joy to his new home, Walter Reed,” the military hospital in Bethesda, Maryland.

Sully, a yellow Labrador retriever, became Bush’s new service dog in June. Sully had been trained by America’s VetDogs, a nonprofit that provides service dogs.

Bush aide Evan Sisley, at the time, said the dog can open doors, pick up items and summon help, but that “more than anything else the dog will be a wonderful companion.”

George H.W. Bush's burial is set for Thursday at the Bush Library Center.

The body of the former president, who died Friday at age 94, is to be transported by a motorcade Monday morning from a Houston funeral home to Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base, a Texas Air National Guard base. The casket will be loaded onto a plane and flown to Joint Base Andrews in Maryland, according to officials.-------------------North Dakota man reportedly admits stealing forklift, planning to flip Trump’s limousine to 'kill' president





A North Dakota man accused of plotting to use a forklift to flip over President Trump's limo to "kill the president" pleaded guilty on Friday.

Gregory Lee Leingang, 42, was charged in federal court regarding his plan that revolved around Trump's visit to Mandan, North Dakota, in September 2017, the Grand Forks Herald reported.

WISCONSIN MAN WHO PENNED ANTI-TRUMP MANIFESTO, STOLE GUNS, IS SENTENCED TO PRISON

Trump was visiting the city, roughly 6 miles west of Bismarck, to give a speech on tax reform.

Leingang, according to U.S. Assistant State's Attorney Brandi Sasse Russell, stole a forklift and entered Trump's motorcade route after the president arrived in the city one afternoon.

"The intent was to basically try to get to the limo, flip the limo and get to the president and he wanted to kill the president," she said of Leingang.

Leingang tried to escape after the forklift got stuck in a gated area, according to reports. He was caught by local police and allegedly confessed his plan to authorities, including the U.S. Secret Service.

A public defender argued in court that Leingang was "suffering a serious psychiatric crisis during this incident," and reportedly set two fires earlier on the same day he stole the machinery.

Leingang was charged with one count of attempting to enter or remain in a restricted building and on grounds while using a dangerous weapon and one count of attempting to damage government property.

COHEN DEAL SIGNALS MUELLER PROBE'S INTENSIFYING FOCUS ON TRUMP: 'IN SEARCH OF A CRIME?'

He entered a plea deal with federal prosecutors and was sentenced to five years in prison for stealing the forklift. He's also serving time for pleading guilty to starting the fires and for a burglary case, and is expected to remain behind bars for decades.

A sentencing hearing for Leingang is scheduled for Feb. 15.-------------------Stormy Daniels: Michael Avenatti and I 'have sorted sh-- out' after fundraiser accounting questions





Adult-film star Stormy Daniels revealed Sunday that she and attorney Michael Avenatti have "straightened s--- out" days after she questioned the origin of a fundraising appeal Avenatti launched on her behalf.

Daniels told the Daily Beast on Wednesday that Avenatti had launched the campaign on the website CrowdJustice "without my permission or even my knowledge" after she questioned him about how money raised through an initial fundraiser had been spent. The initial fundraiser brought in a reported $580,000 toward Daniels' expenses; the second fundraiser brought in $4,785 before the page was taken down Wednesday evening.

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, also claimed that Avenatti sued President Trump for defamation without her approval. A federal judge threw out that suit this past October and ordered Daniels to pay the president's legal fees.

On Sunday, Daniels tweeted that "we know the accounting is on the up and up," but did not elaborate further. When contacted by Fox News, Avenatti said in an email: "We haven’t decided whether we are going to raise more money - ultimately it will be Stormy’s decision."

STORMY DANIELS SAYS LAWYER AVENATTI SUED TRUMP FOR DEFAMATION WITHOUT HER OK

Avenatti also tweeted: "Onward and upward. To all the people that want to divide us for their own agendas: It is not going to happen!"

Daniels initially sued Trump to invalidate the confidentiality agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election that prevented her from discussing a sexual encounter she said she had with Trump in 2006, years before he ran for president. The confidentiality agreement included a payment of $130,000 to Daniels from Trump's then-personal attorney Michael Cohen. This past August, Cohen admitted to making payments to Daniels and another woman, Karen McDougal, "at the direction" of then-candidate Trump in violation of federal campaign finance law.

Trump repeatedly has denied the encounter with Daniels took place.-------------------George H.W. Bush's Putin encounter in Maine remembered by George W. Bush





Former President George W. Bush revealed in an interview released Sunday that he asked his late father for permission to bring Russian President Vladimir Putin to visit the family's famed compound in Kennebunkport, Maine.

Speaking to CBS News' "60 Minutes," Bush recalled that years ago during his presidency, he told his father, former President George H.W. Bush, who died Friday, that he needed a place to bring Putin during the Russian leader's trip to the U.S. in July 2007.

"I said, 'Dad, I need a place to bring Vladimir Putin. Would you mind if I brought him to Kennebunkport?'" Bush remembered. He added that he asked "knowing full well that Putin would say, 'Wow, this is really great.' And [George H.W. Bush] said, 'Not at all.' And he — so Putin lands."

The elder Bush was at "the foot of the stairs" to greet the Russian president as he arrived at the home and, according to his son, asked Putin if he wanted to go out on the family boat.

"Putin said, 'Oh, I'd love to go.' And so Putin has this interpreter that's kind of — you know — didn't look like much of an outdoorsman,'" Bush said, laughing. "And the old man opens that thing up full blast and this guy, I'm standing to this interpreter, he's like white knuckles, you know, hanging on to the boat wondering if he's going to live. And he's cutting through these waves, it's just classic George Bush."

GEORGE H.W. BUSH AND HIS 'SNL' IMPERSONATOR DANA CARVEY: 3 FUNNY SKETCHES TO WATCH

The 43rd president of the U.S. said Putin "loved it," adding that Putin is "kind of one of these macho dudes that — salt spray comin' across, you know, and he thought it was wonderful... The interpreter was nerve-wracked."

Putin stayed at the Bushes' home, known as Walker's Point, for two days, according to The New York Times. After boating, the Bush family and Putin enjoyed a lobster and swordfish dinner.

The 41st president — who often brought his "personal diplomacy" to the table while working with international leaders — died on Friday at the age of 94, roughly eight months after the death of his wife, former first lady Barbara Bush.-------------------J.J. Watt celebrates NFL faceoff of his 2 younger brothers





America’s favorite sport is clearly a family business.

A growing NFL dynasty was in the spotlight this weekend: Houston Texans superstar defensive end J.J. Watt made it back from his big game Sunday afternoon in time to watch his younger brothers face off as the Los Angeles Chargers played the Pittsburgh Steelers Sunday night.

Derek Watt, 26 is a Chargers fullback and T. J. Watt, 24, is a Steelers linebacker.

“I hope T.J. gets a couple sacks. I hope Derek gets a touchdown or a carry, has some great blocks. I mean, he’s a fullback. I hope the game, I don’t know, I guess ends in a tie. I guess that’s probably the best thing for everybody,” J.J. told ESPN late last week.

J.J. took to his social media Sunday to first acknowledge the showdown between his brothers, and then to show them in a split screen during the big game.

PACKERS FIRE LONGTIME HEAD COACH AFTER THIRD STRAIGHT LOSS

Earlier Sunday, the Texans extended their franchise record with a ninth straight win: a 29-13 victory over the Cleveland Browns that extended the streak.

FINAL 4 COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF TEAMS CHOSEN

The Texans (9-3), who opened the season 0-3, haven’t lost since Sept. 23 to take a commanding lead atop the AFC South.

“I was on the couch a year ago so this is a lot better,” said Watt, who missed the last 11 games of Houston’s 4-12 2017 season with a broken leg. “I was in a lot of pain. So it’s good for us to be winning ... this is what it’s supposed to feel like. Honestly this is how you dream it up.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------Woman worries about ‘Final Destination’ flight after she is only passenger on 144-seat plane





One of the nicest surprises of modern air travel is showing up to your flight to discover you have been upgraded to first class. But not many passengers show up to discover they’ve been upgraded to a private flight.

When Latsamy McAdoo showed up to her Bangkok Airways flight from Bangkok to the island of Koh Samui, she was expecting a typical flight. The Miami-based traveler has family on the island and regularly flies back and forth.

McAdoo didn’t notice anything unusual until she boarded and a flight attendant shut the door behind her — despite the fact that no other passengers had gotten onboard the Airbus A319.

At first, the experience was a dream come true. McAdoo ran down the aisles of the plane, was the sole recipient of the in-flight safety speech, got the best seat in the cabin and was treated to endless food and drink for the duration of her flight. But, as turbulence set in, conditions changed and the dream became a bit of a nightmare. “I began to worry that this was some type of Final Destination flight and it was my time to go,” McAdoo wrote on Instagram.

But the pilot was able to land without further problems and McAdoo had an excellent story to tell when she got off the plane.

And the “private” experience didn’t end once she stepped into the airport. McAdoo’s final surprise perk was that, because her bag was the only one checked onto the plane, it was the only bag to emerge on the carousel.

This is not the first time that a passenger has been treated to an impromptu private flight. Last year, a woman named Karon Grieve was treated to a “private” flight from Glasgow to Crete. The flight was already sparse, with only about 10 people booked, but Grieve was the only one who showed up.

There are several reasons an airline may choose to operate a flight with only one passenger. There may be cargo in the hold that needs to get transported. It could also cause scheduling issues for pilots and cabin crew, or for passengers who are waiting to board return-leg flights.

In addition, to leave a plane parked at an airport can cost an airline a substantial amount of money in fines. It may just be cheaper to operate the practically-empty flight.-------------------Green Bay Packers drop head coach Mike McCarthy after third straight loss





The Green Bay Packers announced Sunday that they had fired head coach Mike McCarthy, hours after the team lost at home to the Arizona Cardinals.

“The 2018 season has not lived up to the expectations and standards of the Green Bay Packers," team president and CEO Mark Murphy said in a statement. "As a result, I made the difficult decision to relieve Mike McCarthy of his role as head coach, effective immediately."

Offensive coordinator Joe Philbin was named the Packers interim head coach. Murphy said the process of hiring the storied franchise's next head coach would begin immediately.

Sunday's 20-17 loss to the Cardinals -- who entered the game with a 2-9 record -- dropped the Packers to 4-7-1 and dealt a crippling blow to the team's chances of making the playoffs. It was the first time Green Bay had lost to the Cardinals at home since 1949, when the Cardinals franchise was based in Chicago.

McCarthy was in his 13th season as Green Bay head coach, making him the third-longest tenured coach in the league at the time of his dismissal -- trailing only Marvin Lewis of the Cincinnati Bengals and Bill Belichick of the New England Patriots.

During his tenure, the Packers won their fourth Super Bowl championship following the 2010 season. But recent years had seen the team undergo extended struggles and an increasing reliance on star quarterback Aaron Rodgers, with whom McCarthy seemed to have a strained relationship.

In 2016, the Packers started 4-6 but won eight straight games to get to the NFC title game, losing to the Atlanta Falcons. Green Bay finished 7-9 and missed the playoffs in 2017, when Rodgers missed extensive time with a broken collarbone.

FORMER KANSAS CITY CHIEFS RUNNING BACK ADMITS TO LYING ABOUT ASSAULT, GIVES BIZARRE DEFENSE

McCarthy shook up his coaching staff, including bringing Philbin back as offensive coordinator and hiring Mike Pettine to replace Dom Capers as defensive coordinator. Different problems emerged.

This year, Rodgers hurt his left knee in the season opener, though he is feeling better now. Receivers Randall Cobb and Geronimo Allison have missed time with injuries. The same issues kept popping up for the offense, most glaringly, empty third downs and a lack of explosive plays.

Rodgers was asked after the game -- but before McCarthy's firing was announced -- how much blame offensive players should get if the Packers made a coaching change after the season.

FINAL 4 COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF TEAMS CHOSEN

"Yeah, a lot probably. We haven't played very well," Rodgers said. "We all take part in the disappointments and the failures that we've had this season. We've had a number of opportunities. It's not like we're getting blown out in a bunch of games. We're in games."

McCarthy recorded a 125-77-2 regular season record with the Packers and went 10-8 in the postseason. The Packers made the playoffs in nine of his 12 full seasons, including eight consecutive seasons between 2009 and 2016.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------Tom Cruise reportedly had girlfriends auditioned by the Church of Scientology, former member claims





According to a former member of the Church of Scientology, the organization reportedly auditioned potential romantic partners for actor Tom Cruise in an effort to keep up appearances.

The Hollywood Reporter notes, Valerie Haney was a former member of Scientology’s inner elite Sea Org for 22 years before breaking from the church. She detailed her “escape” in the latest episode of “Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath,” in which the former “Kevin Can Wait” star reveals secrets about Scientology.

Haney explained to The Underground Bunker, a blog that chronicles Scientology, that part of her job would be auditioning girlfriends for Cruise. It’s worth noting that rumors have circulated for years that the church played a hand in who the “Mission Impossible” star dated, alleging that his relationship with Katie Holmes was a product of this alleged auditioning.

"The Church of Scientology stated that the story is utterly false. Valerie Haney is outright lying and making up stories, as part of her employment for Leah Remini," a representative of the church told Fox News in a statement denying Haney's allegations. The spokesperson directed people to a video it produced questioning her legitimacy.

Representatives for Tom Cruise did not immediately respond for comment.

This isn’t the first time that Cruise has been in the crosshairs of Remini in recent weeks. As previously reported, the 48-year-old star told The Daily Beast that Cruise, one of the church’s highest-ranking members, was a part of some of the abuses going on within the Church. She also alleged that members even go as far as to pre-scout the actor’s walking routes to make sure he won’t be exposed to any anti-church materials.

Cruise, meantime, has come under fire before for his association with the controversial religion. In the 2015 documentary “Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief,” former members claimed they were asked to help “facilitate” the breakup between him and Nicole Kidman, who was not a Scientologist.

Fox News Kathleen Joyce contributed to this report.-------------------After Cohen plea deal, Giuliani questions ethics, tactics of Mueller’s Russia investigation





President Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani took to the airwaves Sunday to question the ethics and tactics of special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian interference in the presidential election and possible coordination with the Trump campaign.

“This isn’t a search for the truth. It’s a witch hunt,” Giuliani told host John Catsimatidis in an interview with AM 970 in New York. “This is what is wrong with these special prosecutors and independent counsels. They think they are God.”

Giuliani added: “They seem to want to prosecute people at any cost, including the cost of ethical behavior and the rights of people.”

Giuliani accused Mueller of crossing boundaries for the purpose of “intimidating” Trump’s allies into saying “what he believes (is) his version of the truth,” in light of the surprise plea agreement Thursday with Michael Cohen, Trump’s former lawyer.

Cohen confessed in his guilty plea that he lied to Congress about a Moscow real estate deal he pursued on Trump’s behalf during the heat of the 2016 Republican campaign. He said he lied to be consistent with Trump’s “political messaging.”

Cohen said he discussed the proposal with Trump on multiple occasions and with members of the president’s family, according to documents filed by Mueller.

There is no clear link in the court filings between Cohen’s statements and Mueller’s central question of whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia. And, nothing said in court on Thursday, or in associated court filings, addressed whether Trump or his aides had directed Cohen to mislead Congress.

Still, the case underscored how Trump’s business entity, the Trump Organization, was negotiating business in Moscow well beyond the point that had been previously acknowledged, and that associates of the president were mining Russian connections during the race.

“They obviously exerted a lot of pressure on him. Mr. Cohen unfortunately has a history of significant lies in the past,” Giuliani added in the interview Sunday.

Giuliani previously had said that Trump’s business organization voluntarily gave Mueller the documents cited in the guilty plea “because there was nothing to hide.”

COMEY DROPS LEGAL CHALLENGE TO HOUSE GOP SUBPOENA, TO SPEAK ON TRUMP, CLINTON INVESTIGATIONS

Trump on Thursday called Cohen a “weak person,” who was lying to get a lighter sentence, and stressed that the real estate deal at issue was never a secret and never executed.

“There would be nothing wrong if I did do it,” Trump said of pursuing the project. “I was running my business while I was campaigning. There was a good chance that I wouldn’t have won, in which case I would have gone back into the business, and why should I lose lots of opportunities?”

He said the primary reason he didn’t pursue it was “I was focused on running for president.”

Cohen is the first person charged by Mueller with lying to Congress, an indication the special counsel is prepared to treat that offense as seriously as lying to federal agents and a warning shot to dozens of others who have appeared before lawmakers.

DEMOCRAT BLAMES TRUMP FOR GM PLANT SHUTDOWNS

Cohen told two congressional committees last year that the talks about the tower project ended in January 2016, a lie he said was an act of loyalty to Trump. In fact, the negotiations continued until June 2016, Cohen acknowledged.

Speaking of Mueller's team, Giuliani said: “They want (Manafort) to give certain forms of evidence that would implicate the president in things that Mr. Manafort says are untrue.”

“And they are pressuring him, and creating a real risk that the man might commit perjury,” he said to Catsimatidis. “This kind of pressure can create the risk of tainted testimony.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.-------------------California woman allegedly impersonated cop, groped and robbed woman outside bar





A Southern California woman is accused of sexually assaulting and robbing another woman outside a bar while pretending to be a law enforcement officer, according to cops.

Denise Latta, 54, was arrested Thursday in connection with the Sept. 13 incident. She was booked on suspicion of kidnapping, robbery, false imprisonment, sexual battery and impersonating a police officer, according to The Orange County Register. She was held in lieu of $100,000 bail.

Investigators said Latta walked into a bar in Tustin, approached the victim and a bartender and showed a badge similar to those worn by police officers. She allegedly asked the victim to show her identification card before grabbing it and cutting it into several pieces.

Latta then allegedly forced the woman to leave the bar and told her to put her hands against the wall and spread her feet. Investigators said Latta "searched" the victim, touching her breast and groin area over her clothes in the process. Latta then told the woman to leave and never return to the bar.

WOMAN STABBED TO DEATH AFTER ROLLING DOWN WINDOW TO GIVE WOMAN MONEY, POLICE SAY

According to the Tustin Police Department, Latta was arrested in possession of fake badges, ID cards reading "Agent" and clothing that said "Fugitive Recovery Agent." The department said Latta claimed to be a private detective and bail enforcement officer, but could not prove her claims.

Latta is due to appear in court Monday, according to the Register. Police believe the Sept. 13 incident was not an isolated one and are asking potential victims to contact detectives.

Click for more from The Orange County Register.-------------------Comey drops legal challenge to House GOP subpoena, will testify on Trump, Clinton probes





Former FBI Director James Comey announced Sunday he has dropped his legal challenge to House Republicans' efforts to compel him to testify in a closed-door setting about the political bias and mismanagement they say permeated the Hillary Clinton and Trump campaign probes under his watch.

Citing a history of congressional leaks creating a “corrosive narrative," Comey's lawyers had resisted the GOP's subpoena and insisted on a public hearing. They said in court documents Republicans' demand for closed-door testimony “exceeds a proper legislative purpose, is issued in violation of House rules, and unduly prejudices and harasses the witness.”

But Comey, who was called to testify on Monday and is now expected to testify later this week, relented after House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., agreed on Nov. 28 that the former FBI head's remarks would be made public in their entirety.

“Grateful for a fair hearing from judge," Comey wrote on Twitter Sunday. "Hard to protect my rights without being in contempt, which I don’t believe in. So will sit in the dark, but Republicans agree I’m free to talk when done and transcript released in 24 hours. This is the closest I can get to public testimony."

Fox News has confirmed that a key focus of questioning will be Comey's decision to write the July 2016 statement recommending against filing criminal charges in the Clinton email probe before she was interviewed. And, Comey likely will be pressed on intelligence activity months before the Russia investigation into Trump campaign contacts officially opened in late July 2016.

"I was disappointed that Mr. Comey filed a motion to quash the subpoena sent to him to appear for our investigation," Goodlatte said in a statement Sunday. "Mr. Comey chose to file a motion to quash despite clear Supreme Court precedent setting forth Congress’ authority to issue subpoenas compelling testimony before its committees. There was no need to use baseless litigation in an attempt to run out the clock on this Congress, and I am glad that it was withdrawn."

He added: “Mr. Comey will join us for a closed-door transcribed interview later this week. We will release the transcript of his interview to the public as soon as possible after the interview, in the name of our combined desire for transparency.”

Goodlatte had told Fox News' "Sunday Morning Futures" earlier in the day that he expected Comey to withdraw his motion and appear to testify, saying there had been ongoing discussions to effect that outcome.

Asked why he wanted to talk to Comey now -- just weeks before House Republicans lose the majority -- Goodlatte cited new information, saying, "we certainly couldn't have done it sooner."

Separately, Goodlatte told Fox News that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein will provide testimony to House Republicans under oath as well, prior to Democrats retaking control of the House.

FBI INCORRECTLY SUGGESTED TO FISA COURT THAT YAHOO NEWS ARTICLE PROVIDED INDEPENDENT BASIS TO SURVEIL TRUMP AIDE

"We have now examined thousands of pages of documents, searched through nearly a million documents, interviewed 16 other witnesses," Goodlatte said. "Mr. Comey is, as the former FBI director, at the center of both of these investigations launched in 2016 with regard to Hillary Clinton and the Trump campaign."

He continued: "My hope that, by doing this, we will prevent it from happening again in 2020, or hopefully ever again. The FBI was misused in 2016. And this is an organization that is very, very important. Every day, thousands and thousands of great FBI agents and others protect us from terrorist attacks, prevent crime, solve crimes."

"The FBI was misused in 2016." — House Judiciary Chair Bob Goodlatte, R-Va.

President Trump fired the former FBI chief in May 2017. Comey then leaked memos of his one-on-one interactions with Trump that suggested the president had sought improperly to influence the Russia probe. Trump, in response, accused Comey of disseminating classified information, calling him a "proven liar and leaker."

Comey oversaw a culture of media leaks in the FBI that was flagged by Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz in his bombshell report into apparent misconduct by high-level officials in the Clinton and Russia probes.

SEVEN KEY TAKEAWAYS FROM BOMBSHELL DOJ REPORT INTO FBI MISCONDUCT

Text messages released in September showed that anti-Trump FBI officials Peter Strzok and Lisa Page regularly discussed a “media leak strategy” amid the Russia probe.

"I had literally just gone to find this phone to tell you I want to talk to you about media leak strategy with DOJ before you go," Strzok texted Page on April 10, 2017, according to DOJ documents.

“The term ‘media leak strategy’ in Mr. Strzok’s text refers to a department-wide initiative to detect and stop leaks to the media," Strzok lawyer Aitan Goelman said in a statement. "The president and his enablers are once again peddling unfounded conspiracy theories to mislead the American people."

On April 22, though, Strzok wrote, "article is out! Well done, Page," and on April 12 he told her that two negative articles about Page's "namesake" would soon come out, according to Meadows. That was an apparent reference to Carter Page, the former Trump adviser whom the FBI surveilled for months after obtaining a warrant from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court.

LEAKING 'LIKE MAD': TEXTS OBTAINED EXCLUSIVELY BY FOX NEWS SHOW FBI LOVERS COORDINATING PLAN

Carter Page has not been charged with any wrongdoing, and he is now suing the Democratic National Committee for defamation.

Heavily redacted documents have since shown that a dossier written by British ex-spy Christopher Steele and funded by the DNC and Hillary Clinton campaign played a key role in obtaining the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) warrant to surveil him beginning in October 2016.

On four occasions, the FBI told the FISA court that it "did not believe" Steele was the direct source for a Yahoo News article implicating Page in Russian collusion, newly released documents have revealed.

Instead, the FBI suggested to the court, the September 2016 article by Michael Isikoff was independent corroboration of the salacious, unverified allegations against Trump in the infamous Steele dossier. Federal authorities used both the Steele dossier and Yahoo News article to convince the FISA court to authorize a surveillance warrant for Page.

However, London court records showed that contrary to the FBI's assessments, Steele briefed Yahoo News and other reporters in the fall of 2016 at the direction of Fusion GPS -- the opposition research firm behind the dossier.

Fox Business' Maria Bartiromo, Fox News' Catherine Herridge and Paulina Dedaj contributed to this report.-------------------Former Kansas City Chiefs running back Kareem Hunt admits to lying about assault





NFL running back Kareem Hunt acknowledged lying to the Kansas City Chiefs about his role in a February assault that ultimately led to his release from the team this week.

During a live interview with ESPN on Sunday, the league's reigning leading rusher also said that NFL officials never spoke to him about the incident while conducting their own investigation and that he never saw the security camera video until TMZ Sports posted it Friday.

In the course of a few hours, Hunt went from preparing for Sunday's game in Oakland to being sent home from the practice facility. He was then placed on the NFL's Commissioner Exemption List, summoned back to the team facility and told that he was being released.

"They believed that I lied to them. I lied to them," Hunt said. "They pretty much said we love you, everybody cares about you, and just we have to let you go. It was a tough conversation. And the Chiefs did what was right. I made a poor decision and I'm willing to take full responsibility."

In the grainy, graphic video, Hunt is seen getting into an argument with a woman at a Cleveland hotel and several men step in to hold him back. He later pushes one of the men, knocking down a woman that Hunt admitted he did not know, and eventually kicks her while she lays on the ground.

The video brought immediate comparisons to the footage of former Ravens running back Ray Rice, who was seen punching out his then-fiancée in an elevator. That incident led to a lengthy legal saga, and it culminated in an investigation by Robert Mueller into the NFL's mishandling of it.

The league eventually hired more staff to conduct such investigations and announced it would take a more active role in handling similar cases in the future.

The NFL made multiple attempts to obtain the video of Hunt, but the hotel said corporate policy only allowed footage to be given to law enforcement. The NFL then contacted Cleveland police, but the department said Saturday it did not pursue the video because it was not a felony-level case.

KANSAS CITY CHIEFS RELEASE KAREEM HUNT AFTER VIDEO SHOWS HIM PUSHING, KICKING A WOMAN

When asked whether the NFL spoke directly to Hunt about it, he replied: "No, they have not."

Hunt said he'd just purchased an apartment in the Cleveland hotel and had several friends over, and that he did not know the woman involved in the assault. Hunt said the argument came at the end of "a long night" and that "it was just a disagreement. I honestly wanted her just to leave."

"That's not an excuse," he said. "I'm not that person in that video."

Hunt pointed out that he was raised by his mother and grandmother, and said "they always taught me well. I know right from wrong and I'm a person that always wants to make everyone happy."

Still, Hunt has been in trouble before. He was suspended during his junior season at Toledo for a violation of team rules, and he was accused of a second, unrelated assault over the summer. As in the case with the hotel incident, no charges were filed in that case.

"I regret the entire thing, everything," Hunt said. "I'm going to take the time to better myself, learn from this, get some help if needed, talk to people and really just take this really serious."

Hunt admitted that anger "could be an issue" and that he wants to get treatment, and Rice told NFL Network on Saturday that he would offer his help and experience in moving forward.

"I would definitely try to help him figure out, 'How can we start dealing with the underlying problems in your life?'" Rice said. "He has a long life to live, this will be a defining moment, but it shouldn't be the moment that defines you."

Hunt said he isn't sure that another NFL team will give him a chance, though adding a 23-year-old standout could be worth the public backlash for a team in need of help.

In a development that could further complicate matters, the NFL Network reported Sunday morning that the league is also investigating an incident in which Hunt allegedly punched a man in the face at an Ohio resort this past June. The report said the league believes it has gathered enough evidence from that incident to add to whatever discipline the running back receives for the Cleveland incident.

After leading the NFL in rushing last season, Hunt had already run for more than 800 yards while scoring 14 touchdowns in helping the Chiefs to a 9-2 record. He also had proven to be a popular player in the locker room, often attending sporting events and other functions with his teammates.

Of course, that was before the hotel security video surfaced.

Hunt remains on the exempt list, which means a team could sign him but he would be unable to play or attend games until the league's investigation is complete. The Redskins made a similar move — and accepted the public backlash — when they signed linebacker Reuben Foster, who had been cut by the 49ers after he was arrested on suspicion of domestic violence.

Foster also remains on the exempt list and the Redskins have acknowledged he may never play for them. But by signing him, they retain his rights should he make it back to the field.

"Everything is happening fast right now and I just want everybody to forgive me," Hunt said. "I know it's going to be hard. I made a bad choice. ... I think I deserve it because if you really know me, and everybody that I'm really close to — I've had really close women who are friends — I'm so respectful to everyone. I made a bad decision at that time and I just hope that people forgive me."

The Associated Press contributed to this report-------------------Top Dem blames Trump for GM plant shutdowns, praises new truce with China





Maryland Democratic Sen. Ben Cardin, a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, exclusively told "Fox News Sunday" that President Trump bears responsibility for General Motors' decision last month to close five facilities and slash 15 percent of its North American salaried workforce.

His comments echoed complaints by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who was quoted by the Toronto Star at the G20 Summit in Argentina on Friday saying that GM's restructuring was "all the more reason why we need to keep working to remove the tariffs on steel and aluminum between our countries."

"I do think the way the president has gone about the trade policies, imposing tariffs -- there’s a consequence, there’s a domestic consequence," Cardin told host Chris Wallace. "And clearly General Motors' decisions are in part based upon the tariff issue, so yes it has an impact, and it costs us jobs here in America."

The GM closures in Ohio, Michigan, Maryland and Ontario drew Trump's ire and led him to threaten to cut all subsidies for the largest American automaker. The layoffs could affect up to 14,000 employees. GM will also cease production of several car models, including the Chevrolet Cruze and the Buick LaCrosse.

But Cardin sounded a positive note on the 90-day trade truce reached by Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping, which brings a temporary halt to new tariffs between the U.S. and China, as well as the newly signed United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trilateral agreement.

"President Trump has agreed that on Jan. 1, 2019, he will leave the tariffs on $200 billion worth of product at the 10 percent rate, and not raise it to 25 percent at this time," the White House announced. "Over the next 90 days, American and Chinese officials will continue to negotiate lingering disagreements on technology transfer, intellectual property and agriculture."

CHINESE OFFICIAL SAYS TRUMP IS HARD TO READ, SAYS US WARSHIPS AT CHINA'S DOORSTEPS SPARK TENSION

"Clearly, it is encouraging to see that we're talking with the Chinese on the trade front," Cardin said. "China has created many problems with trade, many obstacles for free trade. My concern about the president's trade policy is that his first action was to take tariffs against our closest allies based upon national security exceptions. We lost the unity that we needed in dealing with China."

Speaking separately to "Fox News Sunday," Missouri Republican Sen. Roy Blunt called for more details on the China truce, but agreed with Cardin that the news was positive.

"People like me who have really been concerned about the president’s stated trade policy can take some encouragement in what happened in the last couple of days, the signing of the U.S. Canada and Mexico agreement -- that’s a big step that 6 months ago or even just a few weeks ago we were concerned that we would not be making that kind of progress," Blunt said.

"And on the Chinese front you are right, we need more specifics here," he added. "I think it’s hard to win a trade war, and I also think, though, that the facts on the table with China are stronger than any other country in terms of our legitimate concerns, and the more other things that the president can move off the table -- whether it's Canada or Mexico, the EU, Japan -- the more of those things he can move off the table, the more flexibility he has with China."

The White House has bipartisan support for hitting back at Chinese intellectual property theft. In an interview in June, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., ordinarily a fierce Trump critic, agreed with the administration's China policy and said that the country "takes total advantage" of the U.S.

“Not only do they steal our intellectual property, they keep our good companies out, and say the only way you’re going to be able to sell your American products in China … is if you come to China, make them there, and give us the techniques and intellectual property,” Schumer said.

For all the developments and progress at the G20, Trump appeared to be in a hurry to leave Argentina. He was filmed seemingly leaving Argentina President Mauricio Macri abruptly on-stage as he lingered awkwardly for a group photo, and was overheard instructing an aide on a hot microphone to "get me out of here."-------------------States that spend the most on welfare





While the economy has been on the upswing over the last year, the cost of living has continued to rise and incomes have remained stagnant, causing many state and local governments to continue to spend billions on public welfare each year.

Continue Reading Below

More than $637 billion was spent on welfare in the U.S. in 2016, according to the Census Bureau’s annual survey of state and local governments.

But some states are harder hit by welfare expenses than others, according to a new GoBankingRates study.

California, for example, has the highest total public welfare expenditures at around $98.5 billion, but is not listed as one of the states that spends the most on welfare per capita – New York is.

According to the report, New York spends $3,305 on welfare per capita, while its total public welfare expenditures are only $19.85 billion. The biggest factor contributing to the problem is the state’s high cost of living, which is the fifth-highest in the country.

Georgia has the lowest spending per capita at $1,126 with total public expenditures hitting $11.7 billion. The reason, opposite of New York, is because the state has among the lowest living costs in the country.

Advertisement

However, the study notes that it’s not just living costs that come into play. Other factors include state budgets, median incomes, poverty rates, unemployment rates and income inequality.

Here are the top 10 states that spend the most on welfare per capita, according to GoBankingRates.com.

1. New York

Welfare spending per capita: $3,305

Total public welfare expenditures: $19.85 billion

Fact: New York has the fifth-highest cost of living in the country.

2. Alaska

Welfare spending per capita: $3,020

Total public welfare expenditures: $2.23 billion

Fact: Alaska is one of the least populous states, and its total public welfare spending is actually the sixth-lowest of all the states – even though its spending per capita is ranked No. 2.

3. Massachusetts

Welfare spending per capita: $2,911

Total public welfare expenditures: $19.97 billion

Fact: The percentage of Massachusetts households that lived in poverty during 2016-17 is 10.1 percent. Massachusetts is also the fourth-most expensive state to live in.

4. Vermont

Welfare spending per capita: $2,842

Total public welfare expenditures: $1.77 billion

Fact: Although Vermont’s welfare spending per capita is high, its total welfare spending is the fifth-lowest of all the states, which is likely due to its low population.

5. Minnesota

Welfare spending per capita: $2,805

Total public welfare expenditures: $15.64 billion

Fact: Minnesota is among the top five states that spend the most on welfare per capita, and it’s among the top 15 with the highest total public welfare expenditures.

6. New Mexico

Welfare spending per capita: $2,741

Total public welfare expenditures: $5.72 billion

Fact: New Mexico has the third-highest poverty rate in America at 18.2 percent.

7. Delaware

Welfare spending per capita: $2,544

Total public welfare expenditures: $2.45 billion

Fact: Per capita spending in Delaware is among the highest, but the state’s total welfare expenditures are the seventh-lowest of all the states. This is likely because it’s the sixth-least populous state.

8. Maine

Welfare spending per capita: $2,530

Total public welfare expenditures: $3.38 billion

Fact: Maine is one of the states that spends the most on welfare per capita. However, it’s among the top 15 states with the lowest total public welfare expenditures.

9. Oregon

Welfare spending per capita: $2,520

Total public welfare expenditures: $10.44 billion

Fact: Although Oregon spends a lot on welfare compared to other states, it’s not one of the best states for poor Americans, a separate GOBankingRates study found. This is due to an overall high cost of living, high crime rates and a lack of affordable housing.

10. Kentucky

Welfare spending per capita: $2,517

Total public welfare expenditures: $11.21 billion

Fact: The poverty rate in Kentucky is 14.8 percent – tied for the seventh-highest of all the states – which could account for its high welfare spending per capita.-------------------Peggy Noonan: Reflections on impeachment, 20 years later





December marks the 20th anniversary of Bill Clinton’s impeachment. There are many recent retrospectives on the scandal that led to it, including former Independent Counsel Ken Starr’s mildly indignant “Contempt” and Alex Gibney’s superb documentary series “The Clinton Affair.”

As I look back 20 years on, I’m more indignant about some aspects, less about others.

I didn’t believe the story when I first heard it—presidents and staffers don’t carry on like that. When I came to see it was true, I was angry. I wrote angrily in these pages.

I see it all now more as a tragedy than a scandal. I am more convinced than ever that Mr. Clinton made the epic political miscalculation of the 20th century’s latter half.

To continue reading on The Wall Street Journal click here.-------------------Mike Huckabee: President Trump, Asia Bibi is a Christian under threat of death in Pakistan -- please help her





It’s been almost a month since Asia Bibi, a Pakistani Christian who spent eight years on death row after being convicted of blasphemy, had her conviction overturned by Pakistan’s Supreme Court. But her life is in just as much danger now as when she faced the death penalty because of her Christian faith.

Since her acquittal on October 31, Islamic leaders within the country have loudly rejected the Court’s ruling. Enormous and angry protests have wracked the country. There have been calls for her to be assassinated, as well as her family and the three judges who ruled in her favor. In response to death threats, her lawyer fled Pakistan and is seeking asylum in the Netherlands. There are reports that Islamic hardliners are going house to house, hunting her and her family down to kill them.



Thankfully, Bibi is being kept in protective custody by the Pakistani government. However, the government has said that they will not stand in the way of Islamic hardliners who are seeking a review of her case.



If this happens, she could be prohibited from leaving Pakistan — ranked 5th in the world for extreme religious persecution. Being forced to stay in the country would mean almost certain death.

No person of any faith should ever fear for their life because of sincerely held beliefs.

Asia Bibi’s husband has pleaded for asylum in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. The UK has denied his request. Canada is in talks with Pakistan regarding a potential offer of asylum, but no official agreement has been made. The United States has not yet offered asylum to Asia Bibi and her family.



Christians prayed and advocated for Asia Bibi when she was arrested and charges of blasphemy were levied against her. We prayed during her imprisonment. We prayed during her trial.

And we must be faithful to pray now that now her freedom and very life are again threatened. The truth of 1 Corinthians 12:26 starkly reminds us that all Christian brothers and sisters are united by Christ — “if one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.” Therefore it is vital that Christians continue to pray for Asia Bibi. Pray for her safety, that Pakistan will not block her from leaving the country and that she will be offered asylum.

But, Christians must also speak up.

President Trump and his administration have been stalwart and vocal champions for religious freedom across the globe. And in Asia Bibi’s case, urgent action is needed RIGHT NOW.

Join me and raise your voice in support of Asia Bibi. Use this tool from My Faith Votes, for which I serve as honorary national chairman, to send an email to President Trump, your representative in Congress and Secretary of State Pompeo, and urge them to swiftly offer Asia Bibi and her family asylum.

No person of any faith should ever fear for their life because of sincerely held beliefs. This principle has been cherished throughout America’s history, but we must remain steadfast to fight for this freedom here at home and around the world or else it will vanish.-------------------Immigration: The conversation we need to be having around America’s kitchen tables -- but aren’t





With the arrival of the migrant caravan at the U.S. southern border this past week, many claim we are finally having a national conversation about immigration. But are we truly talking about it? Or are we just being told about it? And is what we are being told true? And complete?

A recent study from the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) shows the total cost of illegal immigration to federal, state and local taxpayers for the nation’s approximate 12.5 million illegal immigrants has increased to $116 billion annually. The expenditures attributable to illegal immigrants is staggering, crippling and unsustainable. The latest data also shows the costs to taxpayers in enforcement and social services continues to rise — even when offset by the taxes which some of those immigrants pay. The huge surge of legal and illegal immigrants into the U.S. is enough to double the population of Philadelphia every single year. These are shocking statistics. Yet the American people are expected to remain silent about this or else be unilaterally deemed as racist. But is it really a racial question? Or is it a fiscal one?

My former boss, Ronald Reagan, used to explain with pride that ours was the only nation whose very foundation was built on the idea that “We the People” tell the government what to do, not the other way around. I wonder if he would believe that foundation is still firm?

Have “We the People” truly been given a voice in this matter of immigration? Have we been asked if this is the top priority for our hard earned taxpayer dollars? Do we want to spend over $8,000 per immigrant per year instead of aiding a wounded veteran, assisting a homeless citizen or feeding a hungry family? It’s not a matter of compassion, it’s sheer economics. And priority. Are we willing to lower our own national standard of living to support those who enter our country illegally? Every American has to make tough financial decisions in their homes and businesses daily – but are we thinking about immigration in the same terms? Perhaps we should.

While having a porous border to the south is just an ideological nicety for some in power, for those who live in border regions it has hijacked our budgets and placed demands on “we, the taxpayers” that we haven’t approved or prioritized.

At kitchen tables across the nation choices are being made and priorities are being discussed – especially as the holidays approach. Where can the budget be cut back so that gifts may be bought? Can a home maintenance issue be deferred so an urgent car repair can be made? An unexpected medical bill may cancel a planned trip. Or a tuition payment may cause a savings account to be depleted. And every day requests for support or donations are received. None of those decisions are categorically right or wrong, but a priority has to be placed on one over the other and given an urgency or not. There are lots of good causes and worthy people with compelling stories, but ultimately, household budget constraints are what dictate the amount of generosity, not the desire to help. This is real life for the majority of Americans.

Maybe it’s time for America to sit down around the proverbial kitchen table and have a similar, albeit difficult, conversation. It would start with the reality that America is in debt. Deep debt. There are dire needs globally and within our own borders. We can’t help everyone – so how should we prioritize? If we look at immigration in fiscal, not emotional terms, we realize that each person carries with them a price tag, and with that, a choice. Can we help them – and should we? And what do we have to sacrifice in order to do so? When we choose to give generously in one area, we simultaneously choose to cut another area. It’s basic math.

While having a porous border to the south is just an ideological nicety for some in power, for those who live in border regions it has created a challenging reality that strains every aspect of daily life, including roads, schools, stores, emergency rooms and stretched social services and community resources. And it has done so without the consent of the governed, hijacking our budgets and placing demands on “we, the taxpayers” that we haven’t approved or prioritized. If “We the People” truly had a say, we would be part of a national conversation. One based in reality, not rhetoric – and rooted in practicality, not politics.

The federal government spends money as if it’s their money, but it’s not – it has come from the hard work, sacrifice and patriotic responsibility of taxpayers all across this nation. It has come out of the pockets and households of you and me and our children and our parents and our savings accounts and from the sweat of our brows and the result of our industriousness and ingenuity. It should be treated like the precious and limited resource it is.

We all realize we are a nation of immigrants, but legal immigration is measured and purposeful, not reactive. There is a process and criteria and equity. The caravan is not any of that. True asylum seekers wouldn’t throw rocks at their rescuers or pass through a relatively safe country which is offering refuge and employment and say “no thank you.” True asylum seekers don’t rush a border illegally with demands, but rather go through designated ports of entry and pleadingly request assistance. True asylum seekers don’t make threats against or harm those from whom they are requesting aid. The majority in the caravan are not truly seeking asylum, but rather economic opportunity. While they have a legal process by which to request that, they need to wait in line and follow the rules like so many Americans before them. Legal immigrants are woven into the history of our great nation. Illegal immigrants, like those in the caravan, are trying to unravel the very fabric of America.

It’s time for “We the People” to participate in determining the future of these caravan migrants, and other immigrants. We need open and thoughtful dialogue about the fiscal realities of this ongoing issue, not just the emotional hype and political hysteria. Our federal family, America, has serious problems that need to be discussed and prioritized. So pull up a chair and let’s have a conversation about it together – gathered around our national kitchen table.-------------------Rabbi Tuly Weisz: Hanukkah is not just a Festival of Lights, but a Festival of Miracles





Jewish survival from ancient times through today is a miracle.

From the time of the 10 plagues in Egypt and the splitting of the Red Sea, to the recent attack by Hamas on Israel – in which the terror group fired more than 500 rockets into tiny Israel with only one Israeli fatality – each one is a miracle.

This year, Jews around the world will celebrate Hanukkah from Sunday at sundown until Dec. 10 at sundown. While the holiday is widely known as the Festival of Lights, it is really the Festival of Miracles. During these eight days, we acknowledge God’s supernatural role in our lives and in the world.

Many people assume that the gift-giving holidays of Hanukkah and Christmas are similar. True, Hanukkah starts on the 25th of the Hebrew month of Kislev and Christmas on the 25th of December, but the similarities between these two holidays start and end there.

While Christmas marks the birth of Jesus, Hanukkah commemorates the victory of the Maccabees over the Greeks and the rededication of the holy Temple in Jerusalem.

To appreciate Hanukkah, a little history is in order:

When King Antiochus IV of Greece reigned over Jerusalem (215 to 174 BCE) he was brutal and barbarous. To unify his empire, he forced the people to renounce their religions and abandon their cultures.

Specifically, the king sought to eradicate anything having to do with the Jewish faith. Shabbat observance, Torah study and keeping kosher were forbidden under penalty of death. The wicked king even removed the Jewish high priest from his post and defiled the holy Temple with Greek idols.

However, a small and greatly outnumbered group of Jews – followers of the righteous Matityahu and his sons, including Simon the Wise and Judah the Strong – united in a fight against the Greeks and in defense of God’s Torah.

Judah was called a Maccabee. The word is an acronym for the Hebrew words Mi Kamocha Ba’eilim Hashem – “Who is like you, O God” – because Judah was committed to fighting to the death out of faith in and love of God.

When King Antiochus learned about the Maccabees, he sent a large military force to wipe them out. Though the king’s army vastly outnumbered the Maccabees in numbers and weapons, with God’s help the small group of Maccabees defeated their powerful adversary and returned to Jerusalem to liberate it.

The Maccabees entered the Temple and cleared it of idols and built a new altar, which was dedicated on the 25th of Kislev in the year 139 BCE.

However, the Maccabees found only enough holy oil to rekindle the golden menorah in the center of the Temple for one day. By a miracle of God that oil burned for eight days.

As such, at the heart of the modern Festival of Lights is the eight-night candle-lighting ceremony, during which Jews recite special blessings. In addition, we add the Hallel prayer and Al HaNissim both in our daily worship and during the recitation of Grace after Meals. This prayer offers thanks to God for “delivering the strong into the hands of the weak, the many into the hands of the few and the wicked into the hands of the righteous.”

This year, Jews around the world will celebrate Hanukkah from Sunday at sundown until Dec. 10 at sundown. While the holiday is widely known as the Festival of Lights, it is really the Festival of Miracles.

Indeed, the modern return of the people of Israel to the Land of Israel was also a victory of a few over many. And, like the ancient battle against the Greeks, the Israeli army has experienced many great miracles.

Take Israel’s War of Independence. On May 4, 1948, Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion declared independence and the modern state of Israel. Then, just 12 hours after declaring independence, eight Arab armies attacked the infant Jewish nation. But little Israel, with only a small amount of weapons, fought and won.

In 1967, against seemingly insurmountable opposition, Israel likewise won in battle, tripling its territory and reuniting Jerusalem under the Israeli flag – for the first time since the Maccabees controlled the city – in the miraculous Six-Day War.

It’s no exaggeration that the very existence of Israel, a tiny Jewish state surrounded by neighbors intent on our destruction, is a miracle. Jewish people are in Israel because of God, who has always had a plan for His land and His people.

And the miracles continue.

Today the Jews have returned to their ancient and everlasting homeland. The once desolate land is fertile and green again, and Israel, the stalwart of democracy in the Middle East, is a world leader in innovation and entrepreneurship.

It’s no wonder former Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion used to say, “In Israel, in order to be a realist, you must believe in miracles.”-------------------Wondering if you'll ever find 'the one'? Here's the best thing you can do





It’s no secret that the dating world today is highly dysfunctional. I’ve struggled, my friends have struggled, even single people who are my parents’ age have shared horror stories about their struggles in the modern-day dating sphere. There were countless times during my single years when I asked myself, “Will I EVER find ‘the one’”? It often felt absolutely hopeless.

I’m married now, but if you had told me three years ago that at 25 I would be married to a guy I met in New York City, I would have laughed in your face. A friend recently asked me, “You’re married – clearly you did something right. What is your advice for dating? What did you do to get it right?” Her question threw me. “Hmm, what DID I do?” I responded.

It dawned on me that I didn’t have success in the dating world until I STOPPED “doing.” A few years ago I reached a point in my dating life where I said, “I am DONE. Done with heartbreak, done with putting in SO much effort only to be disappointed and heartbroken in the end.” When I took time to stop obsessing over finding “the one,” an unexpected someone came along and showed me what love was all about.

That “someone” was God. That’s right. I fell in love with Jesus. Before you roll your eyes at me, let me tell you WHY.

For a long time I felt empty, always craving to be understood by a special someone. I wanted to hear those words I had heard in so many movies: “I love you. Just as you are.” It wasn’t until I began reading the Bible daily that I finally realized it was Jesus who had been saying that to me my entire life. Jesus was “the one” who loved me exactly how I was, flaws and all. He loved me through all of my mistakes, and waited patiently for me to figure out it was HIM who would give me that special love I’d been craving my entire life.

My heart was completely melted. I said to Jesus, “Okay. Please take control of the areas in my life you think need fixing up, because CLEARLY my efforts aren’t getting me anywhere.”

My dating life was His first renovation. After reading several books on Christian marriage, I laughed and said, “Yeah RIGHT, God. No way is there a man out there who fits these standards. If You want to me to end up with a guy like that, YOU will definitely have to be the one to find him for me.” So, I stopped looking. I stopped trying. I simply fixed my eyes on Jesus and tried every day to trust Him and to offer Him control over my life.

One day not long after, I met the guy who would become my husband. He was handsome, hilarious, respectful, and was searching for a deeper relationship with God. “Hold up,” I thought. “This guy seems a little too good to be true – I don’t know about this.”

In my doubt, my mom said to me, “Stop overthinking! This guy sounds sweet and respectful. I know you’re trying to be careful and to handle this how God wants you to, but sometimes in life you have to step back so that God has room to move.”

I took her advice; I prayed about it, asked my closest girlfriends to pray about it, and said “Let’s just take things slow and see what happens.” Ten months later, we were engaged. We are living a wonderful life together, all because I allowed God to do the work FOR me.

You can try to find your lifelong partner on your own, attempting to control the outcome of your situation, OR you can chill out and surrender control to God. He has unique plans for each of our lives.

The best thing you can DO is to stop DOING so much. Instead, fix your eyes on Him and trust Him to lead you to the future He has planned for you. Realize that before you can find a partner who will complete you, you must first find God’s perfect love for you.

Stop your search and give God room to move – you won’t regret it.-------------------Mom didn’t enjoy her last Christmas with all of her kids (and that’s OK)





It was Christmas of 1984, and my mother crammed my three older siblings and me into a compact car and took us to Arkansas to celebrate the holiday. I vaguely remember it – my mother, on the other hand, remembers it quite clearly. Apparently, it was pretty rough.

No doubt, putting one adult, two older teenagers and two small boys into a small car for six hours was a recipe for disaster. One of us – I shall not say who – was behaving horribly and Mom couldn’t seem to get control of the situation. She was exasperated nearly the entire time.

Nonetheless, anytime I’ve heard Mom talk about that Christmas trip in the years since then, there’s a tinge of regret – but it’s not regret over taking the trip. It’s regret over not enjoying it. As it turns out, that was the last time Mom would ever go on a road trip with all four of her kids again. She now wishes she had appreciated it more.

In the midst of all of the strife, it was hard for her to remember that our time as a family had an expiration date. But suddenly life happened and my two oldest siblings grew up and moved out, leaving a couple of boys in the house, and that was it. There weren’t any more family road trips.

I have this theory that if Mom could go back in time and do that six-hour road trip all over again, she would be just as miserable as she was the first time. Sure, at first she would get in the car and say, “Okay, Paula – remember: This is your last road trip with all four of your kids, so treasure it. Take a deep breath. Be present to the moment. Yes. Here we go. Thank You, Jesus.”

Mom would ride along for about 45 minutes, soaking up the reality and feeling so grateful. But then my oldest brother would pinch me in the back seat and I would start crying. Mom would tell my brother to stop and he would scowl at her.

My youngest brother would pass gas and the tiny car would start to stink. I would get pinched again and start crying again. Mom would raise her voice at all three boys and we would all yell that we didn’t do anything. My sister would tell us to shut up and Mom would tell my sister not to talk like that.

So it would go for six hours until we were about two miles away from Paragould, Arkansas, at which point Mom would realize that she failed to appreciate that last, wonderful trip (again). Going back in time and reliving the moment wouldn’t make it any easier.

When God allows us to live in a particular moment, He gives us the privilege of experiencing it for what it is. So no matter how many times older parents tell us younger parents to enjoy every moment with our children, we can’t make it enjoyable. Changing diapers is stinky and messy, playing Candyland gets old, watching another t-ball game is boring, and combing tangles is difficult and delicate work.

That’s why I think it’s okay to spend time with kids and feel exasperated – to not even appreciate or enjoy it a lot of the time. Scripture doesn’t tell us to be thankful for all circumstances – it tells us to “be thankful in all circumstances” (1 Thess. 5:18). We’re to give thanks – not necessarily to feel thankful.

The beauty of giving thanks to God during exasperating times with our kids is that it directs us away from the disappointing youngsters around us and turns our attention to Him. Miserable or not, at least we have the peace of knowing we weren’t alone in the frustration.-------------------Restaurant offers free meal for kids if parents don’t use cell phones during dinner





A U.K.-based restaurant chain is offering an incentive to parents who don’t use their cell phones during dinner – a free meal for their children.

GERMAN RESTAURANT ISSUES CHILD BAN, BLAMES PARENTS 'WHO CANNOT CONTROL' THEIR KIDS

Frankie & Benny’s decided to launch the “no-phone zone” promotion after the family-friendly restaurant conducted a survey of 1,500 people to see how the use of cell phones affected dinnertime.

According to the survey, nearly 20 percent of children said they felt their parents preferred to be on their phones during meals than to talk. About 23 percent of parents admitted they checked their cell phones during meals – often while their child was talking. Around 10 percent of children even said they went as far as to try and hide their parents’ phones to get more attention.

As a way to combat the trend of parents preferring screen time over family time, the New York-style Italian restaurant offered free meals for kids when parents give up their devices.

JON BON JOVI’S HAMPTON WATER NAMED BEST ROSÉ OF 2018

"Children spell love T-I-M-E and by putting away screens parents are sending the message that their children are important to them and that can only be good for family time," parenting expert Susan Atkins said a press release from the restaurant, Today reported. "Parents are role models in everything that they do and in everything that they say, so by managing their own screen time parents are teaching their kids by example about when and where technology use is appropriate."

During the promotion, which started November 27, Frankie & Benny’s will provide a special box for parents to store their devices in during the meal.

Though the promotion is optional, the restaurant does “actively encourage” parents to participate.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Those on social media were divided about the restaurant’s move.

The chain will run its promotion through December 7.-------------------Man proposes with 6 rings to let fiancée decide which she likes





One man wanted his one and only to have six – rings that is.

Dennis Brown II was getting ready to propose to his girlfriend Atara Dallas when he decided that just one ring wasn’t going to cut it and instead chose six engagement rings of different shapes and sizes for his future bride to choose from.

“I won at life with her, so she deserves 6 rings to choose from,” Brown wrote on Instagram of his decision.

WOMAN FINDS HER DIAMOND BEFORE PROPOSAL AND 'RING SHAMES' HERSELF

The male model and former professional athlete did not stop there with his over-the-top proposal, however. Brown worked with an event planner and hired a stylist, photographer, florist and drapery designer to stage the special day. He even designed a banner with heartfelt words for the backdrop of his proposal.

“A woman, whose heart is full of love and devotion to me, a woman whose loyalty to all those she loves stands unmatched, a woman whose generosity and willingness to help others around her flourish knows no depths,” a portion of the floor-to-ceiling script read.

According to images shared on Instagram, Dallas was shocked by the gesture – and the ring selection.

Though Dallas was pleased with the display (she said yes), not everyone was as positive about the proposal.

NEW YORK WALMART THANKS ‘SECRET SANTA’ WHO COVERED COSTS OF STORE’S LAYAWAY ITEMS

Some trolls on Twitter suggested the groom-to-be did not know his bride well enough, and that's why he came prepared with so many options.

Many, however, were happy for the couple.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Dallas eventually decided on the teardrop diamond ring.-------------------'Pinocchio' remake is a political fable, not family-friendly says director Guillermo del Toro





Director Guillermo del Toro warned that his remake of “Pinocchio” will be a politically-driven parable and not the family-friendly story portrayed in the famous Disney film.

The director, known for dark, fantasy stories like “The Shape of Water” and “Hellboy,” spoke with The Hollywood Reporter at the Marrakech Film Festival about the stop-motion animated film that he’s been pitching for years where he revealed that the film he has in mind is more of a political fable.

“It's not a ‘Pinocchio’ for all the family,” he said of his story, which is set in 1930s Italy. “Of course. ‘Pinocchio’ during the rise of Mussolini, do the math. A puppet during the rise of fascism, yes, it is [political].”

While the star admits that his version of the story, about a puppet that longs to be a real boy, is not going to be one for children, he also stopped short of saying he’ll politicize the story any more than it, or any fantasy story, already is.

“There’s no fable without politics,” the Oscar-winner said, noting gender and class struggles in stories like “Cinderella” and “Snow White.” “Rarely can you get in productive discussions in real life right now it’s so tense. It’s much easier for you to listen to me if I tell you ‘Once upon a time…”

As previously reported, it was announced that del Toro would direct an animated “Pinocchio” movie in late October.

“No art form has influenced my life and my work more than animation and no single character in history has had as deep of a personal connection to me as Pinocchio,” he said in a statement at the time.

“In our story, Pinocchio is an innocent soul with an uncaring father who gets lost in a world he cannot comprehend,” del Toro added. “He embarks on an extraordinary journey that leaves him with a deep understanding of his father and the real world.”

The move comes as part of an ongoing partnership between the “Pan’s Labyrinth” director and the streaming giant. He created the children’s series “Trollhunters” for the platform with two other installments called “3Below” and “Wizards” set to premiere in 2018 and 2019 respectively.

Fox News’ Zoe Szathmary contributed to this report.-------------------'Bachelor' star Chris Harrison hints at Arie Luyendyk Jr. and Lauren Burnham's baby names





Arie Luyendyk Jr. and Lauren Burnham may have recently ruled out some baby names, but Chris Harrison is adding a few to their list.

ET's Katie Krause spoke with Harrison at KIIS FM's iHeart Radio Jingle Ball, presented by Capital One, in Los Angeles on Friday, where he teased what the Bachelor couple will be naming their baby on the way.

Blake Horstmann Says 'Bachelor' Colton Underwood Is 'Getting Sick' of Virginity Talk (Exclusive)

"I can't confirm this, but I heard the name is either Christina or Christopher," he joked. "After me."

"I told them Harrison would be OK too," he continued, before setting the record straight: "I'm making this up. This is not breaking news!"

Luyendyk and Burnham announced their pregnancy in November, just two months before they're set to tie the knot in Hawaii. The couple got engaged on "The Bachelor: After the Final Rose" in March, following Luyendyk's dramatic breakup with his ex-fiancee, Becca Kufrin.

Why Chris Harrison Compares Bachelor Colton Underwood to Sean Lowe -- And It's Not What You Think

"I was not surprised they're getting married. The baby announcement caught me off guard, but I'm unbelievably excited for them," Harrison told ET. "They built this life in Arizona, they have the new house, they put the pool in, they're just a cute couple. I love them to death and I'm glad that they have kind of gotten away and gotten back to their life. So I'm very, very happy for them."

So far, Luyendyk and Burnham appear to be doing their wedding their way, rather than televise their nuptials in a big Bachelor wedding. When asked if there's a chance he could officiate the ceremony, like he has for past Bachelor couples, Harrison answered: "I can't confirm or deny, but I think that would be fun, to go to Hawaii and officiate the wedding."

'Bachelor' Colton Underwood Teases Fans With Photo of His 'Babe' After Filming -- See the Pic!

For now, Harrison is focused on Colton Underwood's upcoming season of "The Bachelor," which premieres in January. And for those fans still unsure about the season, Harrison might have an idea for the next Bachelor.-------------------'SNL' pays tribute to Bush 41 with montage of Dana Carvey's impressions





“Saturday Night Live” paid tribute to former President George H.W. Bush in the wake of his death with a compilation of former cast member Dana Carvey’s impressions of the late president.

The tribute came in the final moments of the show's "Weekend Update" segment, as the montage showed Carvey poking fun at Bush during his presidency.

“President Bush was always a warm and gracious man who understood the power at laughing at yourself,” "Weekend Update" co-host Colin Jost said.

The clips featured Carvey portraying Bush, using exaggerated hand gestures and famous catchphrases such as "Not gonna do it," "Wouldn't be prudent," and "Thousand points of light," a reference to Bush's initiative to encourage volunteerism.

The tribute ended with the real Bush and Carvey's Bush on a split screen.

“I'm watching you do your impression of me, and I gotta say. It's nothing like me," Bush said. "There's no resemblance. It's bad. It's bad."

In 1992, Bush invited Carvey to the White House Christmas party to perform.

"Dana has given me a lot of laughs," the president said during the occasion. "And the fact that we can laugh at each other is a very fundamental thing."

Carvey's impressions eventually led to a longtime friendship between the pair.-------------------'Ralph Breaks the Internet' tops a slow post-Thanksgiving box office





On a typically sleepy post-Thanksgiving weekend in movie theaters, leftovers led the box office with Disney's "Ralph Breaks the Internet repeating as No. 1 with $25.8 million in ticket sales, according to studio estimates Sunday.

The "Wreck-It Ralph" sequel dropped steeply (54 percent) after nearly setting a Thanksgiving record last weekend. But with only one new film in wide release, nothing came close to "Ralph Breaks the Internet," which sends John C. Reilly and Sarah Silverman's video-game characters into cyberspace. In 11 days of release, the $175 million film has cleared $207 million worldwide.

Still going strong in its fourth week of release, Universal's "The Grinch" came in second with $17.7 million in ticket sales. "The Grinch," the Illumination animated production with Benedict Cumberbatch as the Christmas curmudgeon, surpassed $200 million domestically and edged in front of last week's No. 2 film, the "Rocky" sequel "Creed II."

Like "Ralph Breaks the Internet," MGM's boxing drama also slid sizably after a big holiday opening, declining 53 percent. "Creed II," with Michael B. Jordan as Adonis Creed, took in $16.8 million in its second weekend. It has thus far grossed $81.2 million on a $50 million budget.

The week's lone new wide release, the Sony Screen Gems horror film "The Possession of Hannah Grace," opened modestly with $6.5 million. Orion Picture's "Anna and the Apocalypse," a well-reviewed indie mash-up — your standard zombie-comedy-musical — debuted in five theaters, with about $50,000 in ticket sales.

"Crazy Rich Asians," Warner Bros.' breakout summer hit, was a dud in China. Warner Bros. said the acclaimed romantic comedy, which earned $173 million domestically, debuted in China with just $1.2 million. John M. Chu's Singapore-set film, which opened Aug. 14 in the U.S., took months to secure a release date in China, a delay some have attributed to the film's depiction of extremely wealthy Chinese Singaporeans.

"Crazy Rich Asians" was a hit at the Singapore box office, but, like most comedies, it hasn't been as much a sensation abroad as it was in the U.S.; it's earned $64 million overseas. The film's performance in China, though, is potentially worrisome for Warner Bros. Its planned sequel, "China Rich Girlfriend," aims to better capitalize on the world's second-largest film market.

One film that didn't dip much on the weekend was Universal's "Green Book," which grossed $3.9 million on 1,065 screens, dropping 29 percent. The uplifting 1962 road trip drama, starring Mahershala Ali and Viggo Mortensen, has struggled to match Oscar buzz with box office. But last week, "Green Book" was named best film of the year by the National Board of Review, and Universal is hoping it holds strongly in the coming weeks.

"Free Solo" became the year's fourth documentary to cross $10 million. Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi and Jimmy Chin's documentary about Alex Honnold's ropeless ascent of Yosemite National Park's El Capitan rock face, has joined the most lucrative batch of documentaries ever released in a year: "Three Identical Strangers," ''RBG" and "Won't You Be My Neighbor?"

Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Comscore. Where available, the latest international numbers for Friday through Sunday are also included.

1. "Ralph Breaks the Internet," $25.8 million ($33.7 million international).

2. "The Grinch," $17.7 million.

3. "Creed II," $16.8 million.

4. "Fantastic Beasts: Crimes of Grindelwald," $11.2 million.

5. "Bohemian Rhapsody," $8.1 million.

6. "Instant Family," $7.2 million.

7. "Possession of Hannah Grace," $6.5 million.

8. "Robin Hood," $4.7 million.

9. "Widows," $4.4 million.

10. "Green Book," $3.9 million.-------------------Get them while they're not hot: GM is killing these six models next year





Following Ford and Fiat Chrysler’s lead, General Motors is reducing the number of sedan and hatchback models it offers in the United States in favor of a lineup made up largely of trucks and SUVs.

THE CHEVY VOLT KILLED BY CHEAP GAS?:

Several manufacturing plants in North America will be idled, and thousands of workers laid off by the end of 2019 as the company gears up to fill the void with new electric and autonomous vehicles.

Six models are set to be eliminated, leaving a handful of four-door cars in GMs showrooms. At least for now.

Here are the ones riding off into the sunset next year:

Chevrolet Volt: The second generation of the company’s once-heralded plug-in hybrid hasn’t sold much better than the original, but did outsell the surviving all-electric Bolt EV through September of this year.

Chevrolet Cruze: It may be GM’s most popular car globally, but U.S. sales of the compact sedan and hatchback have tanked in recent years as shoppers have moved from small cars into small SUVs.

Chevrolet Impala: The classic American full-size sedan hasn’t fared any better than the Cruze, and is moving aside in favor of the upcoming rebooted Chevrolet Blazer.

Cadillac CT6: Cadillac’s flagship sedan has been sunk by the popular Escalade SUV and a three-row crossover expected to debut soon.

Cadillac XTS: The oldest car in Cadillac’s lineup still does well with the livery car set and makes a fine hearse, but that’s not the image GM is betting its future on.

Buick LaCrosse: It actually outsells the Regal, but is built in the same factory as the Impala, Volt and CT6, and can’t keep the lights on by itself.

FOLLOW FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK FOR SO MUCH MORE-------------------Massive lion fends off more than 20 hyenas during attack, wild video shows





In a moment one could imagine as a harrowing scene straight out of Disney’s “The Lion King,” footage shared by BBC Earth recently captured a lion’s intense struggle to fend off more than 20 hyenas.

The lion, named Red, appears to unknowingly venture into a hyena territory -- a move that could have easily ended in his demise.

SUDDEN DEATH OF BABY ELEPHANT LEAVES OREGON ZOO STAFF HEARTBROKEN

The fight ensues for several moments as the lion growls at the cackling hyenas, who paw and bite at him. At one point, Red’s energy appears to fade.

But in a heroic moment, Tatu, a friend of Red’s, rushes to his rescue after hearing the struggle. Together the two fend off the hyenas.

WARNING GRAPHIC IMAGES: HUNDREDS OF BUFFALO DROWN IN DESPERATE ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE LIONS

Spotted hyenas and lions have a similar diet; the two often “cover the same ground, hunt the same prey, and scavenge the same remains of animals,” according to National Geographic. Both species are known to steal food for each other as well as chase one another, the publication reported.

“A lion male is twice the size of a spotted hyena and three to four times as heavy, and one single paw stroke can kill an adult hyena. Hyenas, therefore, are careful during encounters with adult lions for good reason,” the Hyena Project in the Ngorongoro Crater states online.-------------------Elon Musk thinks humans will have to merge with machines to overcome their 'existential threat'





Elon Musk has sounded the warning alarm again regarding artificial intelligence, telling Axios that humans must merge with machines or risk becoming an endangered species.

Musk said that the goal of his new artificial intelligence company, Nueralink, is to help humanity "achieve a symbiosis with artificial intelligence and to achieve a democratization of intelligence such that it's not monopolistically held by governments and large corporations." In doing so, Musk thinks it could help even the playing field with digital intelligence, which he believes "will exceed biological intelligence by a substantial margin," calling it "obvious."

The 47-year-old tech exec added that humanity is way behind in understanding the fear of whether AI will destroy humanity, akin to "children in a playground."

ELON MUSK JOINS OTHER EXPERTS IN CALL FOR GLOBAL BAN ON KILLER ROBOTS

He was asked if humans could be relegated to a lower status or on small pockets of the Earth due to the rise of machines, Musk did not hesitate to say yes. "When a species of primate, homo sapiens, became much smarter than other primates, it pushed all the other ones into a very small habitat," Musk said. "So there are very few mountain gorillas and orangutans and chimpanzees — monkeys in general."

Musk gave examples of artificial intelligence harming humanity, including asassin drones that could look for a person using the face ID chips in smartphones or even propaganda to "influence elections."

"My faith in humanity has been a little shaken this year," Musk said in the interview.

This is not the first time Musk has sounded the alarms on artificial intelligence.

In 2015, Musk, along with other luminaries including deceased physicist Stephen Hawking, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak and a number of other professors, AI experts, robot makers and programmers, wrote an open letter that called for research to be done on how AI will affect society, both the potential benefits and pitfalls.

"We recommend expanded research aimed at ensuring that increasingly capable AI systems are robust and beneficial: our AI systems must do what we want them to do," the letter states.

Last year, he called AI the "biggest risk we face as a civilization." In a July 15, 2017 speech at the National Governors Association Summer Meeting in Rhode Island, Musk said the government needs to proactively regulate AI before there is no turning back.

“Until people see robots going down the street killing people, they don’t know how to react because it seems so ethereal,” he said in comments obtained by tech website Recode. “AI is a rare case where I think we need to be proactive in regulation instead of reactive. Because I think by the time we are reactive in AI regulation, it’s too late.”

Musk added that regulation of AI needs to be done now because of the bureaucratic nature of it.

ELON MUSK SAYS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE WILL BEAT HUMANS AT 'EVERYTHING' BY 2030

“It [regulation] takes forever," Musk said. "That, in the past, has been bad but not something which represented a fundamental risk to the existence of civilization. AI is a fundamental risk to the existence of human civilization.”

In September 2017, Musk went even further, going so far as to say that AI could be the cause of World War III.

Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia-------------------Alec Baldwin returns to ‘SNL,’ jokes about arrest while impersonating Trump





Alec Baldwin returned to “Saturday Night Live” and joked about his recent arrest while impersonating President Trump.

Baldwin’s appearance on the show Saturday night was the first since he was arrested after a dispute over a parking spot in New York City. While playing Trump, Baldwin speaks with Ben Stiller, who made a cameo during the opening monologue to play former lawyer Michael Cohen, and hangs up the phone after a brief conversation.

“God, I haven’t been this upset since I flipped out over that parking space,” Baldwin says, taking a brief pause that was met with some laughs from the audience. “How can anyone think I colluded with Russia?”

The open focused on Trump’s visit to Argentina for the G20 Summit. The skit also poked fun at the red Christmas trees in the White House that went viral last week and ended with a parody of “Don’t Cry for me Argentina.”

ALEC BALDWIN ARRAIGNED IN PARKING SPOT PUNCH ASSAULT CASE, ENTERS NOT GUILTY PLEA

Baldwin was arrested early last month after he was accused of punching a driver over a Manhattan parking space. He pleaded not guilty to assault and harassment charges last week and is expected to be back in court on Jan. 23.

The actor later took to his family’s foundation Twitter to address the incident, which he said was “egregiously misstated.”

"Normally, I would not comment on something as egregiously misstated as today’s story," Baldwin tweeted hours after his arrest earlier this month.

"However, the assertion that I punched anyone over a parking spot is false," he continued. "I wanted to go on the record stating as much. I realize that it has become a sport to tag people with many negative charges and defaming allegations as possible for the purposes of clickbait entertainment."

“SNL” poked fun at Baldwin’s arrest just days after the incident.-------------------Lindsay Lohan seemingly shades Ariana Grande's 'Thank U, Next' music video





"Mean Girls" star Lindsay Lohan wants Ariana Grande to know that her iconic role cannot be replicated.

On Friday, Grande released the highly anticipated music video for her song, "Thank U, Next," which features an homage to fan-favorite, early millennium films such as "Mean Girls," "13 Going On 30" and "Bring It On."

And while the newly single star has received mostly praise and garnered more than 42 million views for the clever music video, Lohan has reminded the singer that her famed role as Cady Heron in the classic 2004 film cannot be duplicated.

A few days prior to the film's release, Lohan shared a glammed-up Instagram selfie on her account and captioned the image, "Behind the scenes...ain't nobody Lindsay Lohan like the real Lindsay Lohan."

The actress went on to tag Grande and said that she was "flattered" that the singer loved "Mean Girls," after making it clear that nothing could compare to the original.

In the "Mean Girls" music video "remake," Grande's friend and former "Victorious" co-star, Elizabeth Gillies, took on Lohan's famous role.

The "Dynasty" star tweeted about starring in the video and replicating one of the film's most famous scenes following the music video's release.

"I bruised my thighs horribly from doing this slap" she wrote of performing the "Jingle Bell Rock" dance routine in the video. "I didn’t realize the girls were hitting their boots. Smart."

Though Lohan was not included in Grande's "Mean Girls" cast, actors Jonathan Bennett and Stefanie Drummond had revived their original roles as Regina's ex-boyfriend Aaron Samuels and Cady's classmate Bethany Byrd in small cameos.

Other celebrities appeared in the video spoof. Famous momager Kris Jenner starred in the video as Regina George's over-the-top mother, a role originally played by Amy Poehler, and singer Troye Sivan appeared as a classmate who is pushed into the lockers by Grande's Regina George character.

The 25-year-old singer also cleverly paid tribute to her some of her famous exes in her own version of the film's famous Burn Book.

In the video, as the star flips through the gossip scrapbook, she lands on an old photo of herself with ex-fiance Pete Davidson. At the top of the page Grande wrote, "Sry I dipped. I love u always."

The book also included photos of exes Mac Miller and Big Sean.-------------------Drake ends legal battle with woman that made false pregnancy claims





The legal battle between Drake and an Instagram model who made false pregnancy and rape claims against him is over.

“The filing made by Drake against Layla Lace has been resolved, with Layla avoiding going to trial by agreeing to a stipulated judgment which prohibits her from repeating past statements she made against Drake,” his lawyer told Page Six on Friday.

The “In My Feelings” rapper, 32, met Lace in February 2017 while he was on tour in Manchester, England, where he claims they had consensual sex at his hotel. A few months later, the model went on a Sirius XM radio show and claimed she was pregnant with his child.

After dropping the pregnancy bombshell didn’t get the reaction she wanted from the rapper, she went to New York police and claimed Drake raped her during their one-night stand. She also continued to demand millions of dollars from the rapper.

At the time, he sued for civil extortion, emotional distress, fraud, defamation and abuse of process.

“Drake and his team are satisfied with this outcome and while Drake appreciates the support he has received, he asks that his fans and the media allow both parties to move on with their lives,” his lawyer concluded.

This article originally appeared in Page Six.-------------------Ohio radio station stops playing ‘Baby It’s Cold Outside’ after listener expresses concern over song's lyrics





A radio station in Ohio has pulled "Baby It's Cold Outside" from its lineup after a listener expressed concern over the holiday song's lyrics.

According to Fox 8, WDOK Christmas 102.1 removed the tune after one listener called the radio station and suggested it's not appropriate to play the 1940's classic in 2018.

“It wasn't really our decision," WDOK host Desiray told the outlet. "It's the decision of our listeners."

"People might say, ‘Oh, enough with that #MeToo,’ but if you really put that aside and listen to the lyrics, it's not something I would want my daughter to be in that kind of a situation,” she continued, explaining that the “the tune might be catchy, but let's maybe not promote that sort of an idea."

According to Fox 8, the Cleveland radio station said they conducted a poll on its website with the majority of voters in favor of removing the song. However, the results were not visible online, Fox 8 reported.

A separate poll on the radio station's Facebook page did show results and they were quite different: 92 percent out of more than 600 voters were in favor of playing the song while 8 percent thought it was inappropriate.

The 1944 song, written by Frank Loesser, has sparked debate over the years on whether or not its lyrics are problematic.

In the tune, which has been covered by many artists since its debut, a female sings: "I really can’t stay,” to which a man responds: "But baby, it’s cold outside.”

In another part of a song, a woman is heard singing lines like "Say what's in this drink?", "The answer is no" and "I've gotta get home."-------------------Trump, GM awkwardly silent on new Cadillac presidential limousine





With its recently announced U.S. plant closures and layoffs, General Motors isn’t exactly on President Trump’s good side these days. Which makes things a little awkward, because he just got one of its latest models.

You might not know that, though, because the all-new presidential limousine hasn’t generated any fanfare - from either side of the strained relationship.

The replacement for the famous Obama-era Cadillac “Beast” first appeared in New York on Sept. 23, when it picked Trump up at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport and took him to Trump Tower, ahead of his appearance at the U.N. General Assembly.

The heavily armored car is the result of a four-year, $15.8 million GM project, and is one of the most high-tech vehicles in the world. The contract reportedly covers a fleet of about a dozen identical vehicles.

But neither Cadillac nor the White House heralded its arrival. Aside from a response to a Fox News question posted to the private Twitter account of GM’s head of product planning and Cadillac, Mark Reuss, said “Very proud of our team. #America #Cadillac,” there hasn’t been a peep from the automaker. And its deployment was only tacitly announced in a U.S. Secret Service post.

Even the Tweeter in Chief, who once commissioned a line of “Trump Edition” Cadillac limousines, hasn’t typed a character about it - even as he has used the platform to berate GM for its recent business decisions.

This is in stark contrast to 2009, when the first-generation Beast was unveiled ahead of its formal debut at Obama’s inauguration with a lengthy press release, accompanied by official photos from GM.

“As Americans celebrate the inauguration of a new president of the United States next week, another new Cadillac will grace Pennsylvania Avenue to lead the proceedings. President Barack Obama will ride in an all-new Cadillac Presidential Limousine, continuing a long tradition of Cadillac limousines that have served many U.S. presidents,” it read.

“Cadillac is honored to again provide a new Presidential Limousine,” wrote then-Cadillac boss Mark McNabb. “This is a great American tradition that we’re delighted to renew with an all-new car featuring the best of Cadillac’s dramatic design and technology.”

A Cadillac spokesman confirmed the company won’t be putting out similar announcements this time around.

“We are not able to comment. This is all done through the Secret Service,” he said.

But while the technical details of the limousine are top secret, there are no regulations that prevent Cadillac from touting its involvement - as it did the last time. So why isn’t it taking greater advantage?

“The difference between Obama and Trump is the difference between day and night. Generally speaking, being associated with Prez Obama was almost always positive. Being associated with Trump is risky biz,” Michael Bernacci, a marketing professor at the University of Detroit Mercy, wrote in an email.

Sam Abuelsamid, a senior analyst at Navigant Research, agreed.

“I'm actually not at all surprised that GM is keeping a low profile this time,” he said. “Making a big deal about it runs the risk of a backlash from either or both sides of the political spectrum.”

Things are very different over in Russia, where President Putin has been going out of his way to promote his new Aurus limousine, even taking it for a spin himself on a Formula One track.

It’s the flagship of a new brand of luxury vehicles developed by the Russian government for use by officials and sold commercially, possibly to other heads of state.

Trump’s limo is exclusively for use by the executive branch - and isn’t even based on a retail Cadillac model. While it’s been designed to like a sedan, it’s built on a truck chassis and uses the headlights from a Cadillac Escalade. That was also true of the 2009 edition.

“I don't think that there is much of a product halo to be gained from this particular vehicle, since it really doesn't share anything with any production Cadillac,” Abuelsamid said.

Cadillac's U.S. sales are flat this year, and it will be eliminating three of the four existing sedan models by the end of 2019. That would leave it with just one in showrooms, in a lineup of SUVs. The White House did not respond to a request for comment on this report.

WHAT DO YOU THINK? LET FOX NEWS AUTOS KNOW ON FACEBOOK-------------------Black Christmas trees become hottest new holiday trend this season





Christmas enthusiasts are going dark this year — when it comes to decorating their trees, that is.

All black Christmas trees are quickly becoming the hottest holiday trend this season, and online retailers can attest they've also noticed an increase in demand in recent months.

E-commerce company Wayfair confirmed it has seen a 70 percent increase year-over-year in site searches for black Christmas trees in 2018.

MELANIA TRUMP BRUSHES OFF CHRISTMAS DECORATION CRITICS: 'I THINK THEY LOOK FANTASTIC'

Julie Cassetina, a Wayfair spokesperson, told Fox News photos of festive black Christmas trees started rapidly spreading on Instagram and other social media platforms in 2017 and "quickly gained traction with consumers." This year, it's all the rage.

"The holidays are a fun time to push the envelope when it comes to decorating, and some may feel more comfortable trying new trends when it comes to holiday décor as it’s temporary for the season," Cassetina said, noting Wayfair has nearly 100 black Christmas tree options available online.

Online retailer Treetopia told Fox News black is now its fourth most popular tree color — trailing behind green, white and silver.

"We offer seven different styles of black trees, from Tuxedo Black to Stiletto Black Pencil to the new Black Blue Ombre," spokesperson Tami Kelly said.

Sales of black Christmas trees via the website are up 16 percent over last year, Kelly confirmed.

The hashtag #blackchristmastree has been used nearly 9,000 times on Instagram. Many users share photos of their decked out black trees.

One woman proudly posed next to what she dubbed her "goth" tree.

Another woman shared close-ups of a black Christmas tree, featuring silver balls and snowflakes.

'CHRISTMAS TREE EYEBROWS' ARE INDEED A THING PEOPLE ARE ACTUALLY DOING

"A new Christmas trend this year, Black Christmas trees! 🎄You can’t tell a huge difference I think, but I kind of like it!" she wrote.

A brightly-lit black Christmas tree glowed in another woman's family room.

If people are searching for black artificial Christmas trees this year, it appears there are plenty to choose from.

Jennifer Perkins, Treetopia brand ambassador and blogger, encourages everyone to try "branching out."

"Black trees are an easy next step for someone wanting to branch out beyond green or white. Not everyone is ready to go with a red or pink tree for their first time purchasing a colored tree," she told Fox News. "Black Christmas trees are like a little black dress, they go with everything. You can dress them with ornaments and colorful accessories or you can keep them classic and subtle."-------------------An innovative medical device combined with medication could tame epileptic seizures





An innovative medical device combined with medication could tame epileptic seizures copied!

The Neuropace RNS system was recently approved by the FDA. The device, compared to a pacemaker for the brain, is implanted in the skull and reads brainwaves, stopping the tiny electrical pulses that cause seizures. A nine-year study found that it’s safe over time, reduces seizures and improves patient quality of life.

Read More-------------------Measles cases up 30 percent worldwide, WHO says





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Maggie Fox

Measles cases spiked 30 percent in 2017, due entirely to poor vaccination rates, the World Health Organization reported Thursday.

More than 6.7 million people, mostly young children, caught measles in 2017, the WHO reported. And 110,000 died from the virus.

That’s way down from the half a million deaths in 2000, but the progress the world made toward eliminating measles through vaccines is being quickly reversed, the WHO said. It’s in part due to economic chaos in countries such as Venezuela or conflict and unrest in countries including Pakistan and Nigeria. But in other countries, such as Italy, anti-vaccine sentiment means more kids are going unvaccinated.

“The resurgence of measles is of serious concern, with extended outbreaks occurring across regions, and particularly in countries that had achieved, or were close to achieving measles elimination,” said Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, deputy director general for programs at WHO. “Without urgent efforts to increase vaccination coverage and identify populations with unacceptable levels of under-, or unimmunized children, we risk losing decades of progress in protecting children and communities against this devastating, but entirely preventable disease.”

Vaccines have prevented 21 million deaths from measles since 2000, WHO said. But global vaccination rates for measles are just 85 percent on average. Only 67 percent of the world population has received the second needed dose of MMR. To stop transmission of the highly contagious virus, 95 percent of a population needs to be vaccinated, WHO said.

Measles is just the first wave of disease that shows up when kids are not vaccinated, said Dr. Peter Hotez, a pediatrician and dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine.

“I call measles a great biomarker of vaccine coverage because it is one of the most highly contagious viruses that we know about,” Hotez told NBC News.

Nine out of 10 people who are not vaccinated against measles will catch it if they are exposed to it – and measles is an airborne virus, so simply walking into a room with someone else who has measles can expose people to the virus.

“If a single person gets measles, 12 to 18 other people get it, typically babies too young to be vaccinated,” Hotez said.

“The first pop-up disease you see is measles because it is so contagious. Measles is the harbinger of things to come.”

WHO is already seeing high rates of measles infections in 2018. In August, WHO reported 41,000 measles cases in Europe alone, making this year the worst year in a decade for measles in Europe.Brazil has nearly 10,000 cases so far this year and Venezuela has more than 6,300.

“The increase in measles cases is deeply concerning, but not surprising,” said Dr. Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. “Complacency about the disease and the spread of falsehoods about the vaccine in Europe, a collapsing health system in Venezuela and pockets of fragility and low immunization coverage in Africa are combining to bring about a global resurgence of measles after years of progress,” Berkley said in a statement.

“Existing strategies need to change: more effort needs to go into increasing routine immunization coverage and strengthening health systems. Otherwise we will continue chasing one outbreak after another.”

Babies should get a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine as a routine immunization, but the WHO estimated that 21 million infants did not get their shots in 2017. Nigeria, India, Pakistan, Indonesia and Ethiopia had the most unimmunized infants.

Measles can cause a range of symptoms, including fever and a characteristic rash. It can also lead to pneumonia and encephalitis, which can kill. Children who survive severe bouts of measles can become blind or partly paralyzed.

In the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports 220 cases of measles so far, making 2018 one of the worst years in a decade. “A total of 15 outbreaks (defined as three or more linked cases) have been reported so far in 2018,” the CDC said.

Travelers often bring measles back with them, and in certain spots around the country, low vaccination rates make for good tinder for the virus to take hold and spread.

“This is a self-inflicted wound,” said Hotez, who has written a book about the anti-vaccine movement entitled “Vaccines Did Not Cause Rachel’s Autism.”

“I have been trying to make the point now that the anti-vaccine movement is starting to inflict real public health damage. It’s taken a few years,” Hotez added.

“This should be a wake-up call that the anti-vaccine movement is not a fringe movement. It is a well-organized public health destruction machine.”-------------------Gonorrhea is nearly impossible to treat, but a new drug offers hope





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Shamard Charles, M.D.

It may soon be impossible to treat gonorrhea, according to the World Health Organization, as two-thirds of the world's countries have reported gonorrhea cases that resist all known antibiotics.

If that happens, doctors warn, more people will be left with an incurable infection that, while not life-threatening, can cause significant health problems. What's more, it could mark the beginning of the post-antibiotic era of medicine.

But a new drug that specifically targets antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea is giving researchers hope. Recent trials have shown that this drug is 96 percent effective at killing gonorrhea.

The infection is widespread and intractable. In 2017, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that gonorrhea was the second most common sexually transmitted disease in the U.S., with 555,608 reported cases. An estimated 78 million people are infected with the bacteria worldwide, according to the WHO, and this number may be much higher because underreporting remains a problem.

Rates of reported cases of gonorrhea by age group and sex in the United States in 2017 CDC

A dependable treatment is urgently needed.

"Since there is no vaccine to prevent gonorrhea, and the possibility of untreatable gonorrhea is looming larger, it is imperative that we develop new drugs to treat it," said Dr. Stephanie Taylor, professor of medicine and microbiology at LSU Health New Orleans School of Medicine.

With the world using the last viable batch of antibiotics to treat gonorrhea, the Global Antibiotic Research and Development Partnership, a drug resistance initiative, has partnered with Entasis Therapeutics, a U.S. biotech company, to speed up the development of the new drug, zoliflodacin.

In November, the last phase of the single-dose antibiotic trials took place, involving 650 people in Thailand, South Africa, the U.S. and Europe. Researchers hope that the drug will be available to the public by 2023 — the first new drug to treat drug-resistant gonorrhea in over two decades.

So why has it taken so long for scientists to come up with a new treatment?

"The bacterium has steadily evolved to be less susceptible to the antibiotics used for treatment," said Dr. Edward W. Hook III, an expert on sexually transmitted diseases and a professor of infectious diseases at the University of Alabama at Birmingham medical school. "The ongoing progression of antibiotic resistance has now been combined with a lack of alternatives."

What makes gonorrhea so hard to treat is its ability to acquire resistance genes and mutations that enable it to survive and adapt to each new threat. Gonorrhea has another nasty advantage over other infectious diseases: the genes of other types of bacteria can lose resistance once they're not exposed to antibiotics; gonorrhea holds onto its resistance genes.

The complicated history of gonorrhea

In 1946, the first cases of gonorrhea strains resistant to large doses of penicillin were recorded. Thirty years later, researchers studied rare cases of gonorrhea resistance in California and London that led to the discovery of two methods that the bacteria developed to avoid being killed by penicillin: some produced a protein, beta-lactamase, that inactivates penicillin, and others contained damaged DNA that allowed the mutated bacteria to survive in the presence of penicillin.

Researchers found new and seemingly easier treatment regimens — one single pill that could kill the bacteria — but ever-changing regimens were a sign that they had begun to fail. Earlier penicillin-based multidrug treatments were replaced by 1966 with tetracycline, which easily killed 94 percent of gonococcal strains.

The bacteria eventually found ways to survive tetracycline, and resistance quickly developed. Over the next four decades new drugs would be introduced and work initially, only to fail just as tetracycline had.

“We have known for a long time, 20 to 25 years, that the gonorrhea bacteria may be resistant to several antibiotics including penicillin, but the rate of resistance to traditional treatment has hastened in recent years,” said Dr. Frank Palella, a professor of infectious diseases at Northwestern Memorial Hospital.

Currently, the CDC recommends a combination drug therapy of two different antibiotics in the form of an intramuscular shot and a pill — plus azithromycin or doxycycline.

Why do antibiotics stop working?

Not all of the current drugs have stopped working — yet. But the options are fewer and fewer, said Hook.

Doctors prescribing drugs that no longer work against gonorrhea are part of the problem. Astudy published in the BMJ in 2018 found that one in five general practitioners in England were still prescribing ciprofloxacin, an ineffective antibiotic, even though treatment guidelines had changed 12 years earlier.

Also, the infection is often asymptomatic, so people don't seek treatment and unknowingly spread the disease. As transmission rates rise, so does the possibility of new mutations of the bacteria.

Gonorrhea rarely kills, so why is it so important to treat it?

If left untreated in women, the infection can cause long-term abdominal pain and pelvic inflammatory disease, which can lead to ectopic pregnancy and infertility. Pregnant women can also pass the disease along to their newborns. In men, untreated gonorrhea can cause epididymitis — an inflammation of the small, coiled tube in the rear portion of the testicles where the sperm ducts are located. The condition is treatable, but if not treated, it can lead to infertility.

In rare cases, gonorrhea can spread to other organs.

Common gonorrhea symptoms include:

a burning sensation

discomfort during urination

a thick yellow-green discharge from the penis or vagina.

What can be done?

According to the CDC, a coordinated effort among providers, state and local health departments, and patients is needed for rapid detection and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, especially in areas hardest hit by the STD epidemic.

“The communities in which there is the greatest occurrence of infection are those that traditionally have less access to care, so we have to target our interventions to those communities where the need is greatest,” Palella told NBC News.

Currently, 50 percent of STD cases occur in youth ages 15 to 24, and that number may be higher in low socioeconomic groups and among gay and bisexual populations, along with men who have sex with men. Women aged 20 to 24 are at the highest risk of contracting STDs, including gonorrhea.

Palella encourages teenagers and adults to practice safe sex and get routine STD screening to help limit the development of gonorrhea superbugs.

“If you’re sexually active, undergo routine STD screening whether you are having symptoms or not," said Palella. "This is the surefire way to get infections treated and to prevent the spread of it."-------------------Everything you want to know about carbohydrates, explained





Get the Better newsletter.

By Samantha Cassetty, RD

Love ‘em or hate ‘em, carbs are completely misunderstood. Carbs (short for carbohydrates) are one of the three macros (short for macronutrients); protein and fat are the remaining two. Once eaten, carbohydrates get broken down to sugar, or glucose, in your blood, and from there, the glucose from carbs supplies energy to every cell in your body. Notably, your brain demands the most energy, and it’s said that your neurons —basically, your brain’s messengers — need a steady supply. Since carbs remain a mystery to many, here are answers to the most common questions about this food group.

Which foods contain carbs?

It’s probably no mystery that bagels and pasta are considered carbs, but there are plenty of other foods that fall in the carb camp. They are:

Grains. This means you’ll find carbs in both refined grains (such as white bread and white rice) as well as whole grains (including quinoa, whole wheat and oats).

This means you’ll find carbs in both refined grains (such as white bread and white rice) as well as whole grains (including quinoa, whole wheat and oats). Vegetables. Some, like broccoli and leafy greens, have very few carbs, while starchy veggies, such as white and sweet potatoes and corn (often considered a grain) have more.

Some, like broccoli and leafy greens, have very few carbs, while starchy veggies, such as white and sweet potatoes and corn (often considered a grain) have more. Beans. Foods like lentils, chickpeas, black beans, and soybeans supply carbs.

Foods like lentils, chickpeas, black beans, and soybeans supply carbs. Fruits. All forms of fruit, whether frozen, fresh, dried or juiced have carbs.

All forms of fruit, whether frozen, fresh, dried or juiced have carbs. Dairy. Milk, yogurt, and cottage cheese have varying amounts of this macro.

Milk, yogurt, and cottage cheese have varying amounts of this macro. Sweets. Lots of foods — from ice cream to cookies — fall under this category, and anything that has sugar has carbs.

Other foods provide carbs but in lower amounts. And some of the foods listed here supply other macros. For example, yogurt and beans are both sources of carbs and protein. If you’re choosing whole milk yogurt, it’s also a source of fat.

What’s the difference between simple and complex carbs?

Simple carbs are broken down into glucose quickly. Perhaps you’ve experienced a sugar rush — aptly named because the sugar breaks down easily to supply that instant energy. Examples of simple carbs include fruit juice, which is stripped of fiber, and all forms of sugar, whether natural, like maple syrup and honey, or more processed table sugar. Your body isn’t picky here; it will convert them all to sugar quickly. By providing this instant energy, simple carbs cause a faster rise in blood glucose, which prompts your body to produce insulin in response.

The term complex carbs refers to the chemical structure of carbs, and this is where things get a little tricky. Complex carbs can include foods, like fruits and whole grains, which have fiber as well as other nutrients, and the term can also include chemically complex carbs, like white bread, which has little to no fiber or nutrients that occur naturally.

Is this the same as good carbs and bad carbs?

No. When you hear the term good carbs, it usually refers to whole food carbs that have vitamins, minerals, and protective plant substances. Many good carbs also provide fiber. These are key distinctions because these carbs tend to be digested more slowly — whether because they also have protein (in the case of milk and yogurt, for instance), or because they have fiber (think: sweet potatoes or beans). This slower conversion to glucose means your body has a steadier stream of energy, and it doesn’t cause as many drastic fluctuations in insulin that can be problematic. Taken together, the protective compounds and healthier insulin response puts these types of foods in the good carb camp.

Typically, foods that have excessive sugar and refined grains are considered bad carbs because they supply few, if any, nutrients (including fiber), and their fast conversion to energy prompts unhealthy fluctuations in insulin levels. Over time, this can tax your system and lead to insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

One side note here: Refined grains are stripped of their nutrients during processing, but many are enriched (as indicated by the term “enriched wheat flour”), meaning that certain nutrients have been added back in. That means they supply some B vitamins, including folic acid, as well as iron. Because these nutrients are important, the USDA allows for making half your grains whole and the other half can come from these processed grains. However, the truth is, you’re better off limiting your consumption of refined grains and choosing other whole foods rich in those same nutrients. That’s a little off topic for a carb conversation but worth mentioning in the context of good and bad carbs since processed grains do have a few added nutrients.

So this means some carbs are healthier than others?

Yes! I know people get up in arms about calling food bad, but in the interest of science, some foods are plainly better for you than others, and this is certainly true of carbs. Take fruit. Fruit has fiber, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that protect our cells from damage caused by aging, invaders or the environment. In addition to defending your body against diseases, increasing fruit and veggie consumption can also up your happiness-meter. One study looking at more than 12,000 adults over the span of six years found that happiness increased with increasing servings — leveling off at eight servings per day (though you’ll benefit from less).

Beans, also rich in carbs, provide protein, fiber, calcium, iron, folate, magnesium, zinc, and other nutrients. And of course, the fiber in good carbs helps feed the trillions of bacteria in your gut, creating a diverse ecosystem that strengthens your immune system and protects you from certain diseases.

The science is very clear on this: Whole food carbs offer health benefits, whereas refined and processed carbs have a negative impact on your weight and health.

How many carbs should you eat in a day?

This can vary widely depending on the person, lifestyle factors (say, daily killer workouts compared to a desk job with little activity), and goals. A healthy dietary pattern includes mostly good carbs in right-size portions spread throughout the day. Since portions are typically smaller than people think — for instance, ½ cup of whole wheat pasta or brown rice, or a slice of bread — I find that it’s pretty common to have portion problems with starches, a scenario that often means your veggies are being displaced. I recommend reversing the ratio instead so your veggie portion is the largest and the starchy carb portion is much smaller. This is an easy way to think of it so you don’t have to count, measure, weigh or track anything!

Is it better to go on a low carb diet for weight loss?

I always lean on science to answer this question, and it points to the fact that there is no best way to lose weight. It all comes down to what’s sustainable for you. There’s a common thread among popular diet programs: eat whole foods over processed ones, curtail your added sugar intake, and eat more veggies. It’s always a good idea to work with a registered dietitian or look for a plan that has these main pillars and fits within your lifestyle.

What’s the deal with net carbs?

When people are tracking their carb intake, they often subtract the amount of fiber from the total carbs in a given food. That’s because fiber, while technically a carb, isn’t digestible, so it doesn’t cause the rise in blood sugar that other carbs trigger. If you’re not tracking your carb intake, and your carbs are mostly whole foods (i.e., good carbs), you don’t need to think about net carbs.

What does gluten have to do with carbs?

Gluten is a protein (yes! A protein!) found in wheat (a carb). Going on a low carb diet does not mean you’ll be excluding gluten and going on a gluten free diet doesn’t mean you’ll be nixing carbs. Plenty of healthy carbs, like fruits, starchy veggies, beans, yogurt, and even some grains, like buckwheat (confusing, I know) and quinoa are gluten free. If you don’t have celiac disease or gluten sensitivity, there’s no need to steer clear.

WHAT A NUTRITIONIST WANTS YOU TO KNOW

Want more tips like these? NBC News BETTER is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. Sign up for our newsletter and follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.-------------------Burnout among physicians is a crisis in medicine that can lead to medical errors





Burnout among physicians is a crisis in medicine that can lead to medical errors copied!

NBC News’ Kate Snow follows a doctor on the verge of burnout and explores an innovative way to care for the professionals we need to care for us.

Read More-------------------Mental health care is not going to those who need it, study finds





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Avichai Scher

“Deaths of despair,” such as suicides and drug overdoses, are on the rise in the U.S., and there’s no definitive explanation. A study out this week found a number of surprising statistics that deepen the mystery, primarily that rates of psychological distress are going down and outpatient mental health care use is up.

Mark Olfson, a professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University and an author of the study, said the study’s findings were not what he expected.

“We thought we’d find increasing rates of psychological distress in adults,” he told NBC News. “But the distress levels we found don’t explain rising ‘deaths of despair.’ ”

The study, published Wednesday in JAMA Psychiatry, used data from a nationally representative sample of nearly 140,000 people in three studies from 2004 to 2015. The data came from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey, a set of large-scale surveys on the cost and use of health care conducted through in-person interviews by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

“Almost a third of people who reported severe psychological distress are not getting mental health care.”

To quantify the mental health of people in the survey, researchers used participants’ answers to questions about their state of mind to score them on the Kessler scale, a points system widely used to standardize distress levels from depression and anxiety. The scale does not measure other mental illnesses, such as mania or substance abuse.

Researchers found that from 2004 to 2015, rates of self-reported severe psychological distress went down just over 1 percentage point, from nearly 5 percent to nearly 4 percent. In the same period, the percentage of adults receiving outpatient mental health care went up 4 percentage points, from just over 19 percent to 23 percent. This includes use of both talk therapy and psychiatric medications.

However, most of that increase in mental health care was in people who did not report severe distress. The group that reported a low level of distress, or even none at all, increased overall use of psychiatric medication at a higher rate than the group with severe distress.

“The people who need the care aren’t the ones getting it,” Olfson said. “Almost a third of people who reported severe psychological distress are not getting mental health care.”

The study found that the majority of people with low or no distress levels that are getting care are not getting it from a mental health professional, but rather from a primary care doctor who is prescribing psychiatric medication.

It’s possible that those taking medication and reporting low or no distress are feeling good because they are taking medication. But Olfson is skeptical of that. “It’s rare for medication to eliminate symptoms to that degree,” he said.

Adding to the mystery of the study’s findings is that the majority of the group that reported lower distress levels isn’t also getting mental health care.

“You’d think the declines in distress would map onto those getting treatment, but we didn’t find that,” he said. “So there are other things going on, such as lower rates of smoking, higher rates of aerobic exercise, or improving economic conditions following the great recession.”

Dr. David Ginsberg, clinical professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health, said he views the report as an indication that more research is needed rather than anything conclusive.

“The data is based off of self-reports and excludes serious psychological conditions,” he told NBC News. “The trends they found are intriguing, but it leaves a lot of questions.”

He said the way the health care system is set up prioritizes care for those who have access rather than need. “Many people with more serious mental illness don’t have commercial health insurance, or because of underlying conditions, they may need support from others to access care,” said Ginsberg.

The phenomenon of primary care doctors prescribing psychiatric medication didn’t surprise him, although it’s not ideal, he said. Again, he said, the health care system is a factor here. “Primary care doctors don’t have the time to spend on psychiatric issues that the specialists have,” he said. “There’s a lot of demands on prescribers these days, charting and administrative work, so specialists are better equipped to devote the needed time to issues like this.”

Earlier in 2018, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that suicide rates have gone up by 30 percent since 1999. A separate nongovernmental report found an 11 percent increase in overdose deaths from 2015 to 2016.

Olfson said the findings from his study suggest that there is no need to worry that mass despair across the country is causing these deaths.

“It’s not a groundswell of distress,” he said. “We need to make sure we are focusing treatment efforts on the right people and communities.-------------------Burnout among physicians a pervasive problem that can lead to major medical errors





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Kate Snow and Alexa Keyes

When Dr. Cori Poffenberger curls up on her couch after a long day at work, there's no relaxing. She is an emergency room physician, and at night spends hours filling in patient charts and reviewing test results.

Poffenberger's evening electronic record keeping comes after a full day of seeing patients, teaching medical students, preparing dinner for her family, and putting her children to bed. This after office hours work is what doctors call "pajama time," and experts say it is a leading cause of physician burnout.

"I went into emergency medicine because I wanted to help people," said Poffenberger. "And we've created a system that's taking people who care a lot, and who really feel passionately about this, and making them angry, and apathetic and depressed."

Doctor burnout is a pervasive issue, with more than half of U.S. physicians experiencing "substantial symptoms" of job burnout, according to a 2017 National Academy of Medicine paper.

Dr. Tait Shanafelt, a co-author of the paper, has become a national leader in efforts to curb physician burnout. In 2017, Stanford Medicine hired him as its first chief wellness officer. His job is to find solutions — how do you balance demanding patient portals, long hours and unrelenting record keeping — and still keep up staff morale?

"They're no longer really being empowered to be a doctor, they're becoming a clerk," said Shanafelt. "The answer is not yoga, granola, and getting more sleep."

Shanafelt is taking a holistic approach, with the goal of allowing doctors to focus primarily on their patients as opposed to administrative work.

"We are losing the connection to the meaning and purpose in what we do, which is trying to provide care for patients," he said. "Instead of that, we're actually trying to please an insurance company."

Shanafelt recommends leaders in the medical industry design organizational systems in a way that encourages staff engagement, build and cultivate a community among physicians, remove sources of frustration and inefficiency, and bolster individual wellness.

Poffenberger is all too familiar with burnout. She left a previous job at a community hospital after realizing she was starting to feel apathy toward her patients — a sign of burnout.

"I felt like I had nothing left to give," she said. "A lot of times, that feeling of being appreciated for all you're giving is not there. And then you just, you know, you wonder what's the point?"

Combatting burnout is a high-stakes effort for doctors and patients alike. The suicide rate for physicians is among the highest of any profession, according to a survey by Medscape; more than twice that of the general population.

"We send this message oftentimes that we expect you to be superhuman," said Shanafelt. "That often prevents physicians from asking for help, being vulnerable. And we do need to create safe spaces with low stigma, low barrier, to seek help for physicians."

Physician burnout is dangerous for patients, too.

"Doctors feel that there's a very strong relationship between burnout and the quality of the care they provide patients," said Shanafelt.

According to an analysis of a national study of physicians led by Stanford, more than 10 percent of the doctors admitting they had committed what they considered to be a "major medical error" in the three months before taking the survey.

Hospitals around the country are making changes. At Stanford, Dr. Megan Mahoney oversaw a revamp of family medicine clinics. Now, a so-called scribe deals with records and takes notes during patient visits.

"For the first time in my career I'm able to actually have direct eye contact with my patients," said Mahoney, saying the change has been "transformational."

Allowing doctors to be doctors again, says Shanafelt, is an important step in reversing burnout.

One of Shanafelt's goals is to reduce the clerical burden physicians face, and "allow the physician to focus their time and attention on caring for patients."

Back in the Stanford ER, there's a new reward system for doctors who work extra hours. Poffenberger signs up for ready-to-make meal kits, which means more time with her family.

"I don't want to leave emergency medicine, because I love it," she said. "I just want to make it better."-------------------60-second health makeover: 6 simple tips for a better workout





Get the Better newsletter.

By Stephanie Mansour

Did you know that fewer than 5 percent of adults clock in the recommended 30 minutes of physical activity each day? In fact, recent reports project that by the year 2039, half of all adults in the United States will be obese.

And this is certainly the time of year when even those of us who normally work out regularly find it hard to squeeze in fitness (and keep the pounds off). Over the holidays people say they’re much more likely to behave in more sedentary ways like watching TV, sleeping, eating and drinking to manage their stress. And, according to a poll by the American Psychological Association, up to 69 percent of people are stressed by the feeling of having a “lack of time” to get everything done during the holiday season.

If you’re one of those people who feels their blood pressure rise just looking at your to-do list, you may have already decided to shelve any health goals until the new year. But it is possible to begin making positive health changes — and get a jump-start on those resolutions — without having to scrounge for extra time in your schedule.

With so much going on this month, now’s not the time to make sweeping changes to your health routine. But by making some small adjustments you can still feel healthier, which helps to encourage you to make other healthy choices along the way. Plus you’re be working to offset the holiday cheer that is to blame for seasonal weight gain. Whether the holidays leave you pressed for time, or you’re just looking for ways to kick your workout routine up a notch, we’ve got you covered with simple health hacks that only take a minute or less.

Change the grip on your weights to better tone arms

According to the American Council on Exercise, people should consider varying their exercise routines not only to prevent boredom, but also to avoid reaching a plateau in performance and results. If you’ve tried on a holiday dress and noticed your arms are less toned than you’d like, a simple change in grip on your dumbbells can tweak the major muscles involved in each move and expedite your results. For example, if you’re used to doing a bicep curl with your palms holding onto the weights, with the weights parallel to the floor, you can change it up with this quick hack: Turn the dumbbells so that the head of the dumbbell is facing up, so as you curl up, you’ll be practically hitting your shoulder with the head of the weight (and performing a hammer curl). In other words, by holding onto the dumbbells and turning your wrists towards each other (instead of facing up towards the ceiling) you’ll change the angle of the bicep curl and engage different muscles.

This can be done for side extensions, overhead presses, and more arm exercises. For side extensions, simply turn the palms face up instead of face down while holding the dumbbells, and you’ll get a completely different arm workout!

Reverse the order of your workout moves

The scenario is a common one: When you first started your workout routine you saw results that you were happy with. But now, after a few weeks or months, you’re not seeing results even though you’re performing the same moves. Reverse engineering to the rescue! This tactic is another way to avoid plateauing and keep your body guessing without having to develop a whole new training routine.

Simply do your same workout routine backwards. For example, let’s take a mini workout. If you’re used to doing squats, bicep curls, then push-ups, reverse the order! Start with push-ups, then bicep curls, and then end with squats. By making your body guess which moves are coming next, you’re incorporating more interval training and helping to build more muscle.

Squat it out while you’re waiting for your shower to warm up

Instead of standing around for 60 seconds waiting for the water to get warm before you step into the shower, do squats! Even though standing does burn more calories than sitting, strength training and exercise burns even more. And your opportunities to squeeze in one minute of exercise doesn’t stop at the shower —waiting for water to boil on the stove, folding laundry or peeling vegetables all provide the perfect opportunity to drop into a squat, do some leg lifts or even a one-minute plank. Over the course of the day those bursts of activity can add up to a solid workout.

Turn your post-workout stretch into a 60-second meditation

Stress is at an all-time high over the holidays, when busy schedules, end-of-year work deadlines, family dynamics and financial concerns take a toll on our mental health. And meditation is proven to help reduce those sky-high stress levels — and the health risks that come with them. Whether you’re a meditation skeptic or feel like you don’t have the time, turn your post-workout stretch routine into a meditation by simply focusing on your breathing while stretching. Close your eyes during your stretches. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth, slowing down your heart rate and focusing on how your body feels in this calming state.

And an added bonus? Research has shown that people who practice mindfulness experienced significant weight loss. So if that’s one of your fitness goals, becoming more mindful through meditating during your post-workout stretches may help you attain it faster.

Skip gym breaks and add in cardio bursts

Studies show that doing cardio in short, 60-second bursts helps improve cardiovascular fitness and can help in burning fat.

Do you give your body a rest after a set, check your phone or walk over to the water fountain? Instead, add in a one-minute burst of cardio between each weightlifting exercise, whether it be jogging in place, high knees or jumping rope. Studies show that doing cardio in short, 60-second bursts helps improve cardiovascular fitness and can help in burning fat. Plus, you’re squeezing cardio into your existing routine, without having to schedule in extra time at the gym.

Drink a glass of water first thing in the morning

This may just be the easiest change you can make to your daily routine. Of course you should be hydrating before and after a workout, but add an extra glass to your morning routine as well. By simply grabbing a glass of water first thing in morning, you’ll be adding 8-12 ounces to your tally right off the bat and you’ll be starting your day on a healthy note, which can have a ripple effect, prompting a series of healthy choices to follow. Not to mention that research shows that staying hydrated helps with fat and weight loss, and overall health.

According to the Natural Hydration Council, "dehydration can reduce our ability to concentrate, our cognitive and physical performance, and increase feelings of aggression or irritation" (which is already at an all-time high thanks to traffic jams, mile-long lines at the mall and having to spend extra quality time with your in-laws). And even mild dehydration can affect our mood and energy levels. So if nothing else, staying hydrated can help keep you energized and calm as you power through your holiday to-do list.

TRY THESE FITNESS ROUTINES

Want more tips like these? NBC News BETTER is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. Sign up for our newsletter and follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.-------------------Even connected parents struggle with polio-like acute flaccid paralysis





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Maggie Fox

Dr. Riley Bove knows about nerve damage. She’s a neurologist, specializing in multiple sclerosis and trained at top medical schools.

Yet Bove had to fight to get help for her son Luca in 2014 when he developed what’s now known as acute flaccid myelitis — the polio-like syndrome that paralyzes or weakens muscles, sometimes permanently.

Bove and two other parents described their ongoing struggles with AFM, from getting doctors to take their children’s symptoms seriously to the day-in and day-out slog of treating children with crippling and irreversible nerve damage. They decry delays in research that could lead to better treatments and the continued lack of education about the problem across the medical profession.

Four years after it was first widely identified, acute flaccid myelitis remains a challenge to doctors and public health officials. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it looks very much like a virus — probably more than one — that is either attacking the nerves or setting off an autoimmune reaction that damages nerves. But the CDC says there is still not a single clear cause for the condition, which has been conclusively diagnosed in 116 patients so far this year.

“We demand more from the CDC with respect to rapid case ascertainment (including cases before 2014) and movement toward a vaccine,” Bove and her fellow parents write in a letter to the journal JAMA Pediatrics.

“Second, when we brought our children with new weakness for evaluation by their pediatrician, or an acute care clinician, most of our children never underwent a neurological evaluation,” they added. “Acute limb flaccidity is typically obvious, yet many of us were told, ‘He is weak from his fever,’ or even, ‘It’s in her head.’ This led to delays in evaluation, neuroimaging, and swabbing for possible infectious pathogens.”

Bove, who has been in touch with hundreds of other parents, says her experience is typical.

“We all got sick — the whole family, the preschool, everybody got sick with fevers and coughs and colds,” Bove, now a neurologist at the University of California San Francisco, told NBC News.

“We all got over it.” But Luca’s fever came back. “He woke up with a very weak neck and right arm,” Bove said. Bove was finishing her qualifications at Harvard Medical School and knew these signs meant Luca needed immediate medical attention. But she was also cautious about second-guessing her child’s physician, and did not push back when Luca’s regular pediatrician seemed unconcerned.

“He was dizzy and weak. He couldn’t climb onto the examination table in the doctor’s office,” Bove said. “They still didn’t do a neurological exam.”

When Luca’s symptoms failed to resolve as the day went on, Bove sent him back for a second check. Again, he was sent home. By that evening, she was worried enough to send a video to a friend at Boston Children’s Hospital. Acute flaccid myelitis had been making headlines for several weeks, and the friend immediately suspected it might be affecting Luca. That’s when all the stops were pulled out.

“We got him in to Boston Children’s,” Bove said. “We got everything expedited, the diagnosis within 24 hours and started aggressive treatment. Despite that he started to get worse and worse. By the eighth day, he was paralyzed from head to toe.”

None of the treatments worked. Doctors tried steroids, infusions of antibodies and a blood treatment called plasmapheresis, as well as an antiviral drug. It was months before Luca could walk again and now he has permanent nerve damage that has stopped the growth of his right arm and shoulder. He looks, Bove said, like a polio survivor, although the CDC and other experts are confident polio is not causing the syndrome in these kids.

Now Luca wears a neck brace and attends some sort of therapy three to four days a week. “Physically, he can’t keep up with his friends,” Bove said.

Bove wants parents to know to be on the lookout for what is still an extremely rare condition. Only 440 cases have been verified since 2014, according to the CDC.

“We grieve those final days when our still-normal children climbed their last playground structures or took their last runs down the block or their last independent breaths,” Bove wrote along with Erin Olivera, a Los Angeles registered nurse whose son developed the syndrome in 2012 and Heather Werdal of Bremerton, Washington, whose son Hayden was affected in 2014.

If such well-informed professionals are struggling, Bove said, parents with little or no medical knowledge and fewer resources are at even more of a disadvantage.

“I am a Harvard-trained neurologist with all this access,” Bove said. “My kid is vaccinated. We are insured. I trained with the people who are in the know about AFM.”

Most patients with AFM have suffered from what appears to be a viral infection, the CDC said. “Yet, as connected as we are, we can’t find the bug,” Bove said. “We don’t know long-term outcomes. We don’t know how to promote bone growth,” she added. “We know so little and everyone’s a little bit in the dark.”

Researchers such as Dr. Kevin Messacar of Children’s Hospital Colorado say they’ve identified at least two viruses that can cause the condition: EV-D68, which normally causes symptoms resembling the common cold, and EV-A71, which can cause hand, foot and mouth disease. Polio virus is the most notorious cause of AFM-like conditions, but polio no longer circulates in most of the world, especially not in the U.S., and none of the AFM patients has had polio.

Separately in the same journal, Messacar and fellow researchers who have built their own network to study AFM and share information about it point out that sometimes the symptoms of the syndrome are easy to miss. “When AFM is suspected, hospital admission is recommended because patients may experience rapid deterioration of weakness to respiratory compromise,” they wrote. Some children may need to go straight to intensive care because of the risk that they may quickly develop trouble breathing.

It’s also important to know what is and what isn’t AFM, because conditions that resemble AFM can sometimes be treated.

Three of the experts analyzed the records of 45 patients suspected to have AFM and found many instead had transverse myelitis, which can be treated with immune suppressants, or spinal cord stroke. A few had Guillain-Barre syndrome, a condition called Chiari I myelopathy or meningitis.

“Those patients with definitive AFM had a fever or viral infection before the onset of weakness in the arms or legs,” they wrote. “They also lost function of their limbs on one side of the body first with the majority of children losing function of a single limb or all four eventually.” Doctors need to be on the lookout for these symptoms, they advised.

There may be a treatment that could help, they said. “Children with AFM respond better with infusions of immunoglobins — a collect of antibodies that can help tag pathogens as invaders so the immune system can eliminate them,” they wrote. “This is an area in urgent need of further research.”

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., has asked her colleagues to appropriate $1 billion by the end of the year to the CDC for its new task force aimed at addressing AFM.-------------------Vaping pot is more powerful than smoking it, study finds





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Linda Carroll

Pot inhaled through a vape device produces a more powerful high — and often with more deleterious side effects — than the smoked version, a new study finds.

At the same level of THC, the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, vaping led to higher blood concentrations of the chemical than smoking, as well as higher levels of cognitive and psychomotor impairment and a higher incidence of adverse effects, such as vomiting, anxiety, hallucinations and feelings of paranoia, according to the report, published Friday in JAMA Network Open.

It’s important to understand the impact of vaping as more and more states legalize cannabis and the drug becomes more easily accessible, said the study’s lead author, Tory Spindle, a postdoctoral research fellow at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. “More people are coming into cannabis dispensaries and using for the first time in a while or for the first time ever,” Spindle told NBC News. “They should be aware that vaping will produce stronger effects. We found there was a fine line sometimes between a dose that produced the desired effects and one that was too strong.”

The study comes out as more and more Americans are using pot, including teens. In fact, a recent study found that as many as 1 in 11 are vaping cannabis, while another reported that cannabis has more deleterious effects on developing brains than alcohol.

To learn more about the impact of vaping cannabis, Spindle and his colleagues rounded up 17 intermittent pot smokers whose average age was 27. Most had not used cannabis in a long while; on average, it had been nearly a year.

All study volunteers completed three eight-and-a-half-hour sessions during which they smoked marijuana at three different THC doses (zero milligrams, 10 mg and 25 mg) and three in which they vaped the drug at the three different doses. The sessions were scheduled to be a week apart. The zero-milligram dose served as the control in this study.

Once the volunteers had vaped or smoked the cannabis, their cognitive and motor abilities were tested. They were also asked to fill out a questionnaire rating items that assessed the extent to which volunteers felt the following: drug effects; pleasant drug effects; unpleasant drug effects; sick; heart racing; anxious and/or nervous; relaxed; paranoid; alert; irritable; vigorous and/or motivated; restless; hungry and/or had the munchies, sleepy; dry mouth; dry, red, and/or irritated eyes; throat irritation and/or coughing; difficulty performing routine tasks; memory impairment; and cravings from cannabis.

At both non-zero doses, the impact of cannabis was larger when vaped than when smoked, researchers found. But at the higher dose, vapers experienced more negative side effects. “Two people vomited from the high dose,” Spindle said. “One actually experienced some audio and visual hallucinations. Some experienced paranoia as well. So it’s not just about impairment. The negative effects can be quite unpleasant.”

Spindle suspects that stronger effects are felt when vaping mainly because none of the material is lost to combustion. “The difference is most likely due to some destruction of the drug when the cannabis is burned, which doesn’t occur when it is vaporized,” he said.

Proof that vaping has a stronger impact than smoking is important, said Dr. Michael Lynch, director of the Pittsburgh Poison Center at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

“People often create an equivalency between vaping and smoking, assuming that if you’re using the same amount of the drug the effects will be similar,” Lynch said in an interview. “I think this helps inform people who are going to use it medically or recreationally that the effects aren’t the same and the same dose could lead to more negative or adverse effects.”

Lynch is particularly concerned about teens. “Adolescents are more likely to vape than to smoke,” he said. “Data coming mostly from nicotine use shows that vaping is a pretty common way teens are first exposed.”

Another worry to keep in mind, Lynch said, is that as teens start to drive, "they need to understand that these drugs are intoxicating. We’ve definitely seen rises in drugged-driving-related injuries and fatalities.”

There are a lot of misconceptions regarding vaping, said Stan Glantz, a professor of medicine and director of the Center for Tobacco Control Research and Education at the University of California, San Francisco.

“There’s an assumption that because you’re not setting the substance on fire, it’s not as bad,” Glantz said. “That’s turning out not to be true. In addition to delivering a higher dose of the drug, vaping produces an aerosol of ultrafine particles that are sent to the lungs and then the brain. These particles are really small, a 50th to 100th the size of a hair. They can go right through the lungs and into the blood and from there into the cells of the body.”-------------------Hearing voices others can't: How a growing movement fights mental health stigma





Hearing voices others can't: How a growing movement fights mental health stigma copied!

What is it like hearing voices that others can't? For Jeannie Bass, hearing voices is her daily reality. The medical term is "auditory hallucinations." Jeannie is a leader in the Hearing Voices Movement, which aims to re-frame and destigmatize the extreme mental experiences that society labels as "crazy."

Read More-------------------Racial disparity in U.S. heart rhythm treatment suggests bias in medicine





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Source: Reuters By Linda Carroll

Black patients in the U.S. with atrial fibrillation — an irregular heart rhythm — are less likely to receive the medications that would help prevent stroke, the most dangerous outcome of the condition, compared to whites and Hispanics, according to a new study.

The study involved more than 12,000 patients with atrial fibrillation, often called AFib or AF. When researchers took socioeconomic factors into account, the overall difference in treatment with any kind of blood thinner between blacks and others narrowed. But black patients put on blood thinners were still less likely to receive prescriptions for one of the newer, more effective medications.

“We found that African American patients were much less likely to receive the newer class of anticoagulant medications than whites, even after controlling for socioeconomic factors, such as income, education and insurance type,” said Dr. Utibe Essien of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and core investigator at the Center for Health Equity and Research Promotion at the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System in Pennsylvania.

The data were collected between 2013 and 2016 from participants in a multi-site trial assessing outcomes of AFib treatment. All of the patients in the current analysis had been diagnosed with AFib, and 11,100 identified themselves as white, 646 as black and 671 as Hispanic.

After accounting for clinical and sociodemographic factors, the researchers found that black patients were 25 percent less likely to receive any oral anticoagulant drugs compared to white and Hispanic counterparts and 37 percent less likely to receive the newer medications that are safer and easier to use, according to the results published in JAMA Cardiology.

The biggest difference between the older and newer drugs, Essien said, is that the newer ones are easier to use. With the older drugs, patients need to get their blood tested at regular intervals, so the dose can be modified if needed, he explained.

The researchers also determined that for black patients, the blood-thinning effect of the older medication warfarin was less likely to end up in the right range, which would be another factor suggesting that the newer drugs might be a better choice for these patients.

“We have decades of data showing that (anticoagulant therapy) is the most important way to prevent stroke,” Essien said, adding that studies have shown black patients are at higher risk of stroke than whites.

The analysis wasn’t designed to determine why individual patients and their doctors chose the treatments they did, and it didn’t examine whether the medications prescribed affected outcomes like stroke.

What’s particularly striking about the findings is that the “data set in question is one that reflects the ideal care model,” said Dr. Clyde Yancy, chief of cardiology at Northwestern Medicine in Chicago, who wrote an editorial accompanying the study. “And after controlling for as many things as you can there is still this nagging difference that unfortunately tracks to the race of the patient.”

The new research means that all of us “finally have to acknowledge the perverse influence of subconscious bias,” said Yancy. “We should be aware of this and institute strategies that allow us to acknowledge this is operative in decision making and see ways to overcome it.”

The researchers “have advanced a theme that’s been developing over the last 25 years,” said Dr. James Glazier, a cardiologist and clinical professor of medicine at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan, who wasn’t involved in the study. “It’s an embarrassment to the U.S. healthcare system that depending on your race or ethnicity you don’t get the same healthcare.”

Glazier suspects there would be less disparity if there were more black cardiologists. “Specifically, 12.4 percent of the population is African American,” Glazier said. “And just over 1 percent of cardiologists identify themselves as African American. So there is a huge discrepancy. There are some very concrete things you can do. For example, you can try to get more underserved minorities to medical school.”

Wayne State has instituted a program to bring underserved minority high school kids to the university’s Harper Hospital to learn about medicine. “They learn how the operating room works and how infections are controlled, for example,” Glazier said. “And it’s paid off. Now we’re seeing the first of our young students entering medical school at Wayne State and Michigan State.”-------------------Faulty pacemaker raises concerns over medical device testing





The first person in Britain to receive what was heralded as a revolutionary pacemaker has told of her nightmare after it stopped working and surgeons were unable to extract the implant from her heart.

Maureen McCleave, 82, from Chingford in Essex, said she felt “so lucky” when in 2014 she was offered the Nanostim device, which is a 10th the size of a traditional model and the first of its kind to be approved.

However, within three years McCleave began suffering from dizziness, palpitations and exhaustion.

From orange bags to Essure: why we’re examining the implants industry Read more

Doctors discovered the pacemaker’s battery, which was meant to last 10 years, had died. McCleave was one of dozens of patients placed at risk due to this technical flaw, which prompted an official safety alert.

The cases raise questions about whether the device was sufficiently tested before being approved and whether patients who were fitted with the pacemaker were fully aware of the risks.

“I’d like to know why it stopped working,” she told BBC Panorama, one of the Guardian’s partners in the investigation. “I was just assured that [it] would last me until I died.”

More than 700,000 pacemakers are implanted annually worldwide, including about 35,000 in the UK. The estimated market revenue from pacemakers worldwide is projected to reach $12bn (£9.4bn) by 2021.

Nanostim was developed by a small Californian tech company and brought to market by St Jude Medical, a device company that was acquired by the US healthcare firm Abbott last year.

The pacemaker was billed as a radical departure from traditional models, in which up to three electrical leads run into the heart from a separate battery pack that sits under the collarbone. Nanostim, which is the size of an AAA battery, has no leads and is anchored directly inside one of the heart’s chambers.

It is delivered by a catheter threaded up the femoral vein from a small incision in the leg. The minimally invasive procedure can be performed under local anaesthetic in less than 10 minutes.

McCleave was waiting to have a conventional pacemaker to treat an irregular heartbeat, when in January 2014 she says she received a phone call from Prof Richard Schilling, a cardiologist at St Bartholomew’s and the Royal London NHS trust.

He asked if she would like to become the first person in the country to receive a new, advanced pacemaker. “He said … what a breakthrough it was,” she said. “I just thought it was a really, really good thing. I was really pleased that I’d been picked to have it done.”

She was told the pacemaker would last at least 10 years and recalled joking with her doctors that it would “see her out”.

She was given the Nanostim weeks after it was awarded its CE (Conformité Européenne) safety mark by Britain’s leading approval body, the British Standards Institution.

Q&A Do you have a related story or information to share? Show Hide We want to hear from readers to find out more about your experiences and perspectives on the story. You can get in touch by filling in this encrypted form. If you require an enhanced level of security please see here for other ways to contact the Guardian. Your responses will only be seen by the Guardian and we’ll be in touch if we are considering your response as part of our reporting. You can read terms of service here.

In the application, St Jude submitted data from a three-month trial involving 33 patients, one of whom had died due to a heart perforation during the implantation procedure. A year earlier, Nanostim was turned down for a CE mark by the German licensing body, which was concerned that, at that time, the device had only been tested in sheep.

In the weeks after the procedure, McCleave had regular contact from a St Jude representative who asked her to do media interviews with the Mail on Sunday, ITV’s The Alan Titchmarsh Show, BBC radio and others. She said she agreed because she felt so grateful to have the implant.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Maureen McCleave: ‘I don’t like the fact that there’s something in my heart that shouldn’t be in there and it’s not doing anything.’ Photograph: BBC Panorama

In 2014, St Jude was forced to temporarily suspend a Nanostim trial after doctors reported six instances of perforation, including two patient deaths, out of more than 200 implants. Then in October 2016, St Jude issued a safety alert telling doctors to halt implantations of Nanostim after receiving 34 reports of premature battery failure, out of 1,423 patients who had received the implants.

McCleave received a letter about the battery issue but said she assumed she was unaffected. But in January 2017 she began to suffer dizziness, palpitations and exhaustion and felt “something, somewhere was wrong”.

When she attended hospital, doctors discovered the battery on her pacemaker had drained prematurely and she was sent for urgent revision surgery. Although Nanostim was marketed as retrievable, McCleave was advised it could not be taken out and a conventional pacemaker was added in alongside it.

“I don’t like the fact that there’s something in my heart that shouldn’t be in there and it’s not doing anything,” she said. She bled profusely during surgery, due to being on the blood-thinning drug warfarin, had extensive bruising and needed to stay in hospital for several days.

Revealed: faulty medical implants harm patients around world Read more

She said St Jude did not get in touch to explain what had gone wrong or why it had happened. “I felt like a bit of trash that had been thrown to one side,” she said. “When it went wrong, I just felt like I’d been dismissed. At least someone could have sent a letter to say we’re sorry that things went wrong.”

In November 2017, Abbott, which had acquired St Jude, issued a further safety notice warning of a problem with the docking button that was designed to allow doctors to extract the device. This included three reports of the button detaching and in one case migrating into an artery.

Francis Murgatroyd, the director of cardiac electrophysiology at King’s College hospital in London, said he feared St Jude was “in a rush” to bring Nanostim to market ahead of a competing leadless pacemaker being developed by a rival medical device company, Medtronic. “My impression was that the company was very, very pushy.”

In the US, the Food and Drug Administration has not approved Nanostim for use on patients, despite the device having been initially developed in the US.

Abbott declined to comment when asked about fears Nanostim may have been rushed on to the market.

It said in a statement: “Many patients have been helped by leadless pacing systems and many more will benefit from this technology in the future.

“In accordance with the European CE mark approval process, the Nanostim leadless pacing system was approved based on strong performance and safety data. In addition, upon CE mark approval Nanostim was further assessed through a European post-market clinical follow-up study.”

A Barts Health NHS trust spokesperson said: “At no time did we wish to make Mrs McCleave feel under pressure to have the Nanostim leadless device implanted, and we are sorry that she now feels this way. We believe that her treatment options were made clear, including that we would be happy to implant a conventional pacemaker if she preferred.”

The trust said it wrote to McCleave immediately after being notified of potential problems and that she was seen in clinic two weeks later to allow her time to consider having a replacement device.







-------------------Medtech Giant Pushes Boundaries As Casualties Mount And Sales Soar





From garage startup to global dominance, Medtronic bent and broke rules in its relentless pursuit of success.

In the autumn of 2008, medical device giant Medtronic was in a tailspin. Profits were sliding. The company was battling hundreds of lawsuits over a heart device that was unnecessarily shocking some patients and failing to work at all in others.

Authorities in the United States were pursuing allegations that Medtronic had bribed doctors across Europe to use its products. Only months before, the company had agreed to pay $75 million to settle allegations that a subsidiary defrauded a U.S. government health program.

On Sunday night, Oct. 12, 2008, Medtronic’s ethics officer shipped three folders of documents marked confidential to inspectors at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in Washington, D.C. The files, delivered to the government as part of one of the settlements, included a copy of Medtronic’s 10-page code of conduct. Among other things, it pledged, “no bribes, kickbacks, or other payments for illegal purposes shall be made.”

The documents included a copy of a letter from then chief executive William Hawkins to Medtronic employees. “We cannot allow anything — not making the numbers, competitive instincts or a direct order from a superior — to compromise our commitment to integrity,” he wrote.

Over the next decade, the tables turned. Medtronic soared to the top of the medical device world, more than doubling annual revenue to $30 billion. It launched hundreds of products and opened offices in more than 160 countries.

The company also violated its integrity pledge on a global scale, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists found as part of a yearlong examination of the medical device industry called the Implant Files.

In the 10 years since the company pledged integrity, governments on four continents have accused Medtronic of promoting unauthorized uses of products, defrauding government health programs, fixing prices, paying doctors for favorable studies and engaging in anti-competitive conduct.

In the U.S., the Justice Department sued Medtronic over device safety problems. In India, regulators uncovered price-gouging. Chinese authorities fined it for monopolistic practices.

The Justice Department and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigated bribery allegations against Medtronic in Turkey, Malaysia, France, Germany, Greece and Poland, though they closed the probe after six years without taking action.

Medtronic denies all wrongdoing and says it strictly complies with anti-corruption laws.

The company’s history offers a window into some of the business practices of a $400 billion device industry that has developed lifesaving products but also has pushed against or broken legal and ethical boundaries. Medtronic rivals Johnson & Johnson, Abbott Laboratories and Boston Scientific — or their subsidiaries — have also faced allegations of fraud, bribery and other abuses.

All the companies said they conduct business with the highest ethical standards, adhere to all laws and have rigorous programs to prevent employee misconduct.

Medtronic is making devices that help control diabetes, manage chronic pain and alleviate Parkinson’s disease. It invented a wireless pacemaker the size of a vitamin pill. It expanded into new areas of medicine — managing operating rooms, arranging health care loans, monitoring patients.

But the company or its subsidiaries also face a bid-rigging probe in Brazil, inquiries into business practices related to vascular devices in the U.S. and tax-evasion allegations in Italy.

Investigation spans 36 countries

Over the course of a year, more than 250 reporters and data specialists from 59 news organizations in 36 countries pursued the Implant Files investigation. This included interviewing or reviewing testimony from more than 50 Medtronic employees and speaking with dozens of government officials, patients, doctors and experts. Reporters examined tens of thousands of pages of court filings, company records, regulatory reports, government audits, lobbying records, transcripts of analyst calls, medical journal articles and other documents.r

Medtronic chief executive Omar Ishrak declined to comment for this story. In a written statement, spokesman Rob Clark said the company views patient safety as its top priority and upholds the “highest standards of ethical practice.”

The company did not answer questions about legal cases or specific allegations of wrongdoing recounted in this article. It said many were based on “unfounded claims of litigants and industry critics.”

“Allegations are not facts and should not be interpreted to suggest that Medtronic violated our legal, ethical or regulatory obligations in any way,” Clark said, adding that in the few instances employees or affiliates broke company rules, they were punished. “Our reputation is the result of our commitment to patient safety, transparency, compliance, and ethical business practices.”

In February, CEO Ishrak told investors that Medtronic’s therapies make life better for more than 70 million new patients a year — improving two people’s lives every second.

An ICIJ analysis of adverse event reports filed with U.S. regulators from 2008 to 2017 identified 9,300 deaths and 292,000 injuries potentially linked to products made by Medtronic or its subsidiaries.

In 2017, one in five of all medical device adverse event reports was tied to a Medtronic device — more than twice as many as any competitor. Reports filed with authorities in Japan, Norway and Australia also placed Medtronic among the manufacturers with most adverse event reports during the last five years.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration noted that the largest device makers likely would have the most adverse events because they make the most devices. The agency also cautioned that reports of injuries and deaths filed with regulators might contain incomplete or unverified information and are only one source the agency uses to monitor devices’ safety.

In the company’s statement to ICIJ, spokesman Clark stressed Medtronic’s state-of-the-art safety systems and continuous monitoring of products both before and after regulators clear them for patient use. Still, he said, all medical products — no matter how well-designed and thoroughly tested—have risks.

It’s a successful business model that Medtronic follows, even if it damages patients.

– Dr. Charles Rosen

In the years since its ethics pledge, Medtronic has reported $3.2 billion in legal charges and said it reached agreements to settle about 20,000 patient claims and lawsuits. During the same period, the company posted net income totaling about $34 billion. Its market value grew to $125 billion from $28 billion a decade ago.

“It’s a successful business model that Medtronic follows, even if it damages patients,” said Dr. Charles Rosen, a California spine surgeon who co-founded the Association for Medical Ethics, a patient advocacy group. Rosen has reported on studies by industry-paid consultants and lobbied to have financial relationships between device companies and doctors made public. Costs to recall products or settle liability cases are “relatively minor” compared to profits, he said, and “are just the price of doing business.”

From moonlighters to whistleblowers

Medtronic was founded in a Minneapolis garage in 1949 by a moonlighting electrical engineer named Earl Bakken. Eight years later, Bakken created a battery-powered pacemaker, about the size of a smartphone, that could be taped to the chest, freeing bedridden heart patients.

Bakken, who died last month at 94, hired managers and sales personnel to cater to a lucrative and growing market of surgeons and cardiologists.

Medtronic founder Earl Bakken. i Alvis Upitis/Getty Images

By 1977, Medtronic dominated the pacemaker market and had branched into respirators, vein erasers to cure varicose veins, and electrical stimulators to treat stomach muscle weakness. The company went public that year and was listed on the Fortune 500 in 1985.

In a bid for part of the huge market for treating back pain, Medtronic acquired industry leader Sofamor Danek in 1999. The Memphis-based company had developed Infuse, a bone graft to treat weakened spinal discs, the shock absorbers between the vertebrae. Infuse, known in Europe as InductOs, has two parts: a biologically engineered powder that stimulates bone growth, and an absorbable sponge to hold the powder. Infuse is used in combination with a metal cage placed between vertebrae, which are then fused together.

The FDA approved Infuse in 2002 for use in a small section of the lower back. Test results had revealed possible damaging side effects from other uses. From the start, surgeons implanted Infuse in ways the FDA hadn’t authorized — including to repair damaged neck vertebrae and skulls.

It is legal for a doctor to use a product in ways not approved by the FDA, but manufacturers are barred from promoting so-called off-label use. In its statement to ICIJ, Medtronic stressed that it markets products for approved uses only and denied that doctors are paid to use or promote its products in unauthorized ways.

Yet former employees alleged in litigation against the company that Medtronic sales representatives and consultants engaged in a promotion campaign to get doctors to use Infuse off-label for other spinal procedures.

Top sellers earned generous commissions, Bobbie Vaden, a former bookkeeper in the spinal division, said in an interview. “They were pushing to ‘sell more, sell more, sell more,’” she recalled.

Vaden’s friend, former senior travel manager Jacqueline Kay Poteet, said in a separate interview that her job was to arrange trips to posh resorts for doctors.

“I was their friend when I could get them first-class tickets,” Poteet said. “Then they weren’t my friend anymore.”

One physician she worked with was Dr. David Polly Jr., former head of orthopedics at what was then Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. Poteet said she booked Polly’s coach class travel to speak about spinal procedures at conferences in the Caribbean and Europe. Medtronic also paid Polly nearly $600,000 from 2003 to 2005, according to a ledger provided to U.S. Senate investigators.

Polly, now a professor at the University of Minnesota, didn’t respond to requests for comment, but documents show that he consulted and taught courses for Medtronic. Polly previously told the New York Times that payments from Medtronic didn’t influence his medical decisions.

He also used Infuse off-label to treat soldiers wounded in Afghanistan and Iraq, according to a whistleblower lawsuit filed by Poteet and Vaden and other documents. In 2004, Polly and two other surgeons published a positive report on an absorbable cage used with Infuse in spinal surgeries on soldiers and other patients. The FDA had approved use of such cages but not in the spine on the ground that they couldn’t withstand heavy loads.

Although doctors may use FDA-approved devices off-label, in this case the surgeons did not seek permission for the research, Army officials found.

In 2008, another of the three surgeons, Dr. Timothy Kuklo, published a study on injured soldiers treated with Infuse at Walter Reed. The study was retracted after the Army notified the medical journal that Kuklo had listed several surgeons as co-authors without their knowledge. The study also overstated the benefits of Infuse, the New York Times reported, quoting Army investigators. Medtronic later disclosed that it had paid Kuklo almost $800,000 in consulting fees from 2001 to 2009.

Kuklo did not respond to requests for comment. His former lawyer, Henry Dane, said a review found insufficient evidence to conclude that any study results were fabricated. The Army also didn’t respond to requests for comment.

The lawsuit filed by Poteet and Vaden was dismissed. But their information and documents about Infuse helped prompt a Senate inquiry.

By the spring of 2008, authorities were closing in on Medtronic on several fronts. In May, Medtronic agreed to pay $75 million to resolve allegations that another spine-treatment subsidiary defrauded Medicare, the U.S. health insurance program for senior citizens and some younger people with disabilities. The company signed a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the inspector general’s office at the Department of Health and Human Services, promising to tighten oversight, scrutinize transactions with doctors and abide by the law. That’s the pledge Medtronic detailed in the documents shipped to Washington later in the year.

As of the spring of 2008, Infuse had been “used successfully” to treat more than 500,000 patients, the company announced. Market analyses cited in an internal investigation estimated that Infuse had been used off-label from 60 percent to 85 percent of the time.

On July 1, 2008, the FDA issued a warning to doctors. The agency reported that it had received 38 reports of “life-threatening complications” from the use of Infuse in patients’ necks. Patients reported swelling in the neck and throat that caused trouble swallowing, speaking and even breathing. Some required emergency tracheostomies.

Terrible and tragic timing

Shirley Nisbet never got the warning.

On Thursday, Aug. 21, 2008, before dawn, Nisbet’s husband, Walter, drove her to a hospital in Baldwin Park, Calif., for neck surgery. Nisbet was in constant pain. Her orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Johannes Bernbeck, had said tissue pressing on her spinal cord needed to be removed.

A Medtronic representative was in the operating room — a common practice in the implant industry for procedures with complicated devices. In the middle of the surgery, according to a lawsuit filed by her family, Medtronic’s representative encouraged Bernbeck to treat Nisbet’s cervical spine, the portion of the spinal column in the neck, with Infuse.

Shirley Nisbet died days after her neck surgery in 2008. i Supplied

After the operation, Nisbet suffered every complication mentioned in the warning. Her neck swelled. She had trouble swallowing. Her breathing became labored. On the morning of Aug. 26, the 74-year-old mother of three went into a coma. She died four days later.

Bernbeck, who was not named as a defendant in the lawsuit, referred questions to the hospital. The hospital declined to comment, citing patient privacy. At the time, Medtronic denied wrongdoing and said its representative did not recommend off-label use of Infuse for Nisbet.

The case was dismissed.

Four years after Nisbet’s death, the U.S. Senate Finance Committee issued a blistering 2,300-page report based on 5,000 pages of company records covering events from 1996 to 2011.

The report accused Medtronic of concealing $210 million in consulting and royalty fees to doctors who wrote 13 pro-Infuse studies. Those studies didn’t mention serious risks identified by independent researchers, such as cancer and male infertility.

The company said that, in the wake of the Senate inquiry, it strengthened policies on payments to researchers and took other steps to increase transparency. In early 2012, Medtronic hired James Kirwin, an industry veteran, to improve clinical product development in the spinal division. About a year later, Kirwin said in an interview, one of his teammates found a study on a shelf. It documented reports of more than 1,000 injuries and deaths from Infuse that hadn’t been provided to the FDA.

Kirwin became concerned that Medtronic had violated the law by not reporting the adverse events in 2008, when the study was discontinued. Medtronic eventually reported those events to regulators and blamed the delay on improperly archived information. The company makes every effort to notify regulators promptly about all adverse events, spokesman Clark said.

Kirwin said he never fully understood the reason for the reporting delay. “I could never figure out if they were incompetent or evil,’’ he said.

Healthy heart for all

The 2008 ethics pledge failed to end Medtronic’s problems with the U.S. government. Two years later, as the Senate focused on Medtronic’s payments to doctors, CEO Hawkins announced his retirement at age 56. Omar Ishrak, a Bangladesh-born engineer from General Electric Co.’s health care unit, succeeded him.

Ishrak began by announcing a renewed commitment to ethics. The company’s mission, he said, “calls on us to be the unsurpassed standard of comparison and to be recognized as a company of dedication, honesty, integrity and service.”

In his first conference call with investors, Ishrak said the company would focus on delivering better, less expensive patient care, creating new business models and accelerating international sales, especially in developing countries.

Medtronic viewed India, with its 1.2 billion potential customers, as a prime target. Ishrak, in an interview at the time, described it as the company’s “biggest hole.”

One challenge the company faced was the cost of its products. Most Indians didn’t have health insurance, and the median per capita annual income was about $1,500.

At the end of 2010, Medtronic’s India unit launched Healthy Heart for All. Its stated goal was to sell pacemakers and coronary-artery stents to low-income patients by reducing the cost of devices and, in a twist, arranging loans for patients to buy them.

The company found partners in privately owned Indian hospitals.

The first was Mission Hospital, a new 360-bed facility in Durgapur, a steel town 100 miles from Kolkata. The hospital sought to provide affordable care for all Indians, but its idealistic goal quickly ran into reality. “Initially our motto was health care to all,’” the hospital’s chairman, Dr. Satyajit Bose, said in an interview. “But no lunch comes for free.”

Medtronic’s executives in India offered to help the hospital attract new patients with a consumer financing program, backed by American-style marketing campaigns. Working with a consulting firm hired by Medtronic, the hospital published ads in local newspapers promoting Healthy Heart and organized promotional events in downtown Durgapur.

The Mission Hospital in Durgapur, India. i Scilla Alecci / ICIJ

The first patient was a single mother from Durgapur. Her smiling face was plastered on billboards around the city. “Pacemaker surgery now at affordable prices for those below the poverty line,” one said.

The hospital set up free heart screenings in rural schools and temples. Hundreds of patients lined up for tests to diagnose heart problems. About one in 10 was referred to the hospital for additional tests or for a Medtronic pacemaker, coronary stent or defibrillator, according to Dr. Bose and company reports.

At the hospital, patients could apply for loans that paid for up to 85 percent of the cost of a device, at an interest rate of up to 8.25 percent, marketing documents show. The loans were made by Matrika Foundation, a small nonprofit based in a ramshackle apartment building north of Mumbai. Kiran More, then a trustee of the foundation, told ICIJ that Medtronic provided funds for the loans. The company did not comment on the foundation’s role. But it said the program included financial assistance to patients who otherwise would have been forced to use “alternate unorganized money lenders for funding the procedure at extremely high interest rates.”

By late 2012, Medtronic said, the campaign had screened 20,000 patients, with 2,000 receiving its heart devices. A year later, the number of cities with hospitals adopting the program jumped to 20 from four.

At the time, Dr. Sanjay Tarlekar, director of Shushrusha Hospital’s Heart Care Center, a Medtronic partner in a suburb of Mumbai, praised Healthy Heart for All, calling it “a relief for patients and hospitals alike.”

But the program drew criticism from some doctors concerned about rising debt among the poor. They also worried that consumer financing of medical devices could push doctors to recommend surgeries to patients who might not need them.

“Pushing people who are already poor into debt is not sensible,” said Dr. Ajit Mullasari, director of cardiology at Madras Medical Mission.

In 2014, patient advocates began to question Medtronic’s business practices in India. A Mumbai-based consumer advocacy group filed a complaint with the Food and Drug Administration of Maharashtra state. It accused Medtronic’s subsidiary in India and six distributors of selling products at “exorbitant” prices and paying kickbacks to doctors.

Although the Indian agency didn’t find evidence of corruption, it said in a report that patients paid “exaggerated” prices for a Medtronic stent — up to 12 times what the company paid to import them. Regulators also reported that Medtronic’s Indian unit generated “massive profit” at the expense of “poor victims,” the patients.

Both Mission Hospital, in Durgapur, and Shushrusha Heart Care, in suburban Mumbai, severed ties to the Healthy Heart for All program after the price-gouging allegations, their directors said in interviews. Four other hospitals that ICIJ identified as participating in the program did not respond to requests for comment. Medtronic said it phased out the program last year “due to changing dynamics of the healthcare sector and low visibility.”

Today, Tarlekar, Shushrusha Heart Care’s director, says Medtronic didn’t keep its promise to help doctors treat needy patients with low-cost devices. “They cheated us,” he said.

Sales and safety

Nowhere was Medtronic’s push for growth more intense than at its diabetes unit based in Northridge, California. The unit makes glucose monitors, sensors and pumps that deliver insulin in controlled doses, eliminating the need for constant finger pricks and multiple daily injections.

The global market for diabetes, for both drug and device manufacturers, is enormous. Governments around the world spent $1.3 trillion on diabetes treatment in 2015, with costs poised to rise. An insulin pump can cost $6,000 and supplies between $3,000 and $6,000 a year. Patients who switch from multiple insulin injections to pumps can reduce their insulin expenses by about $650 a year.

Medtronic pumps long dominated the market for treatment of Type 1 diabetes, often the most serious form of the disease. It usually develops in children and young adults and represents 5 percent to 10 percent of all diabetes cases.

In recent years, rivals have begun to close in on the broader diabetes market with new customer-friendly devices, eroding Medtronic’s long-held technological advantages. Pressure within the Northridge unit for sales growth rose, former employees later alleged in lawsuits.

According to a whistleblower lawsuit filed by Adam Witkin, a former sales territory manager in Oregon, the company sought to expand its customer base to patients with Type 2 diabetes, which is often associated with obesity and old age. The lawsuit is pending.

Witkin said the company encouraged doctors to promote insulin pumps and other diabetes-management products by offering incentives such as speaking gigs, free services, research funding, trips and lavish dinners.

One company memo, filed as evidence in the lawsuit, encouraged sales representatives to develop a rapport with doctors’ office staff and described the ease of accessing confidential patient information at an endocrinologist’s office in Las Vegas. “You should have free reign in his office, and they will allow you to pull charts,” the memo said. “Once upon a time I went through all his patients and flagged potential pump patients. Time to do it again.”

As a way of driving pump sales, Witkin said in the lawsuit, he and other Medtronic sales representatives sometimes inserted monitoring sensors into patients, a medical procedure for which some were not licensed.

“I have no known legal business or certification to be doing or being part of any diagnostic procedure,” Witkin wrote in a February 2011 letter to Medtronic’s legal department.

Witkin said he was fired for complaining to the FDA and others about company practices. Medtronic disputed his allegations, saying in court filings that Witkin was terminated based on performance and behavior. The diabetes division had the highest ethical standards, the company said. Witkin and all employees received training in anti-kickback rules, and they were repeatedly informed that only doctors or licensed staff could perform medical procedures. And physicians were never allowed to bill for services that they didn’t render, the company said.

In a separate lawsuit, another former diabetes division employee, David Zuzick, said he warned supervisors on four occasions between 2009 and 2013 that a new glucose monitoring device, Sentrino, was not ready for patient use. Or at least, it wasn’t ready without “substantial warnings” to its users about its limits. The device had been brought to market in Europe without adequate safety tests, according to a wrongful discharge lawsuit Zuzick filed in a California state court.

Zuzick, a former director of product planning, also said in the lawsuit that Medtronic managers told him to suppress clinical data “that did not support the safety and performance of Sentrino.”

Medtronic denied all the allegations in court filings before striking a confidential settlement with Zuzick last year. In its statement to ICIJ, the company denied it suppressed clinical data about any product.

Zuzick said in the lawsuit that his concerns about quality and development problems were validated in September 2013, when the FDA sent a warning letter to Medtronic. It cited flaws similar to those Zuzick said he had been reporting to management for nearly two years.

Sales of Medtronic’s diabetes products increased as countries like Germany, Australia and Chile approved new government subsidies or insurance coverage for insulin pumps. In the U.S., Medtronic won exclusive deals for its pumps with insurer UnitedHealthcare and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.

Over the decade starting in 2008, Medtronic insulin pumps and their parts were subject to 20 recalls and about 100 lawsuits alleging malfunctions.

In the 2013 warning letter, the FDA admonished the firm for failing to investigate or respond promptly to consumer complaints or reports about deaths. In one case of delayed reporting, the agency said, a possible pump malfunction may have led to an over-delivery of insulin that caused a patient to lapse into a diabetic coma.

The warning letter also cited violations of U.S. product quality rules, including pump leakage, manufacturing problems, untested design changes, software glitches and inadequate employee training.

An analysis of FDA data by ICIJ and the Associated Press found that insulin pumps and their components are responsible for the highest number of medical device adverse events reported to U.S. regulators. And since 2008, insulin pumps and their parts made by Medtronic potentially accounted for more than 2,600 deaths and 150,000 injuries.

Medtronic said adverse event reports can be misleading or based on incomplete or inaccurate information, so it’s impossible to draw conclusions about whether the medical device is at fault. Medical and technical experts attribute many of the mishaps to user error. Its insulin pumps have helped hundreds of thousands of patients manage their diabetes and a recall of a device does not mean it’s defective or dangerous, according to the company. When a recall is necessary, spokesman Clark said, Medtronic communicates it to doctors and patients.

In interviews with ICIJ and its media partners, patients and families in Finland, Germany, Canada, India and the U.S. said Medtronic was slow to respond to complaints about insulin pumps and failed to inform them of risks.

In August 2017, in the town of Alahärmä in western Finland, 12-year-old Roope Kauppi woke up one night with dangerously low blood sugar. He screamed. While waiting for an ambulance, he collapsed in his dad’s arms and blacked out. The boy recovered, but his parents said they suspect his Medtronic insulin pump delivered too much insulin.

In an interview with ICIJ’s Finnish partner Yle, Roope’s parents said they blamed the company for not notifying them about possible safety problems. The Kauppis said they sent the pump to Medtronic for testing and are awaiting results.

“It’s a fine device when it works,” said Roope’s father, Tapani. “But it can be dangerous when it doesn’t work. Anything can happen.”

Roope Kauppi was taken to hospital in an ambulance in the middle of the night. i Supplied by Kauppi family / Yle

Lobbying machine

At a Goldman Sachs conference in Rancho Palos Verdes, California, in June 2014, Medtronic CEO Ishrak faced a crowd of investors and industry insiders. They wanted to know about the product pipeline and which innovation would next propel the company’s stock.

As one questioner put it: “Show me the money.”

Less than a week later, Medtronic announced one of the biggest deals in medtech history: the $42.9 billion acquisition of a competitor, Dublin-based Covidien PLC. Medtronic would maintain its headquarters in Minneapolis and incorporate in Ireland, on a single floor of a modest Dublin office building. The maneuver meant that Medtronic would pay taxes at the Irish rate of 12.5 percent instead of a U.S. rate as high as 35 percent. It could also hold $14 billion abroad without paying U.S. taxes.

Wall Street applauded. Yet such arrangements, at the time an increasingly common tax-avoidance maneuver among U.S.-based transnational corporations, were also drawing political fire. Then-U.S. President Barack Obama called the arrangements, known as tax inversions, a way of “gaming the system.” His party proposed a bill to impose a moratorium.

Medtronic already had formidable lobbying and legal teams, whose high-profile victories included a landmark 2008 U.S. Supreme Court case that dramatically reduced patients’ ability to sue over defective devices. When one in four members of Congress co-sponsored legislation to restore those litigation rights, Medtronic and other device companies successfully lobbied to kill it. In 2012, the company spent nearly $2 million to curb the FDA’s regulatory power.

After coming under fire for its proposed move to Ireland for tax purposes, Medtronic retained the law firm of former U.S. senators Trent Lott, a former Republican Senate majority leader, and John Breaux, a Democrat from Louisiana. It paid the firm $200,000, nearly 4 percent of its $5,310,000 in lobbying fees in 2014 — the most Medtronic ever spent in a year — to oppose the inversion moratorium. The bill, which many big U.S. firms opposed, died in committee. And Medtronic’s inversion was on its way to completion.

Clark, the Medtronic spokesman, said the company’s lobbying efforts are consistent with its mission to get life-saving therapies to patients. To accomplish that goal, he said, Medtronic “must maintain a healthy dialogue with government officials who have a significant impact on health care policy.”

On another front, Medtronic paid $862 million from 2014 to 2017 to doctors and research institutions for studies, training and consulting work, according to data from the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. And over those same years, Medtronic also donated millions to trade and patient advocacy groups to promote its products. Among the donations: $5 million to the Cardiovascular Research Foundation, a nonprofit research group that plastered Medtronic’s logo on programs, booths, and sponsored discussions at the foundation’s widely attended conferences.

Ethics pledge proves elusive

As it moved to the front ranks of the global healthcare industry, Medtronic continued to face allegations it violated its pledge to comply with the law.

In early 2015, the company paid $7.2 million to settle two whistleblower cases with the U.S. Justice Department. One alleged that Medtronic paid kickbacks to doctors to use spine stimulators off-label. The other alleged that the company imported spinal devices from China, then relabeled them “Manufactured in Memphis.” Medtronic didn’t admit wrongdoing in either case.

The company also contended with questions about one of its blockbuster products, a pain-management pump called SynchroMed II. In April 2015, after 22 recalls dating to 2004 and findings that Medtronic had failed to correct violations, Ishrak signed a 27-page agreement with the Justice Department to sharply curtail sales of the pump. Flaws sometimes caused it to deliver too much or too little medicine, subjecting patients to overdoses or agonizing withdrawal.

A Medtronic Synchromed II pump. i Dustin Chambers / ICIJ

An FDA inspection report the next year found that Medtronic still hadn’t fixed all the problems.

Over the decade starting in 2008, adverse event reports filed with the FDA have linked SynchroMed pain pumps potentially to more than 800 deaths and 35,000 injuries.

Medtronic said it worked with the FDA to correct problems and today is producing and marketing a safe SynchroMed system.

Overseas, problems mounted. In May 2015, Indian regulators found that Medtronic and some of its competitors had overcharged for devices, leading the government to cap the price of stents. The company announced that it had severed ties with some distributors.

In November that year, Medtronic’s Brazilian unit provided information to Brazil’s antitrust agency detailing how the company participated in a decade-long bid-rigging scheme along with three rivals. Medtronic allegedly acknowledged that the companies conspired to fix the price of heart devices, secretly dividing the market among themselves and freezing out rivals.

The investigation is ongoing, and Medtronic didn’t comment about it. In a 119-page report, Brazil’s Administrative Council for Economic Defense said Medtronic “confessed” to “alleged collusion” as part of a deal to reduce any possible penalty.

And in December 2016, Chinese regulators fined Medtronic’s unit in Shanghai $17 million for price fixing. They found that from 2014 to 2016, the company imposed minimum resale prices on its Chinese retailers and distributors. Such practices, the National Development and Reform Commission said, stifled competition and, by keeping prices high, hurt patients.

Owning the disease

As 2016 dawned, Ishrak was charting a new course for his company. Medtronic wasn’t just selling medical devices anymore. It had begun to manage hospital cardiac catheterization labs and diabetes clinics, overseeing their equipment and supply chains, helping maximize hospitals’ reimbursement payments, providing consulting services and more.

In short, Medtronic was transforming itself into what it called a “one-stop shop” for the medical community, a sprawling enterprise unlike any in the device business. As enthusiastic analysts at PricewaterhouseCoopers put it, in the treatment of cardiac problems and diabetes, Medtronic would “own the disease.”

Ishrak spent that year touring industry events around the world, mingling with government officials and painting a bleak picture of the global health care system as inefficient, costly and in need of reorganization.

At a speech in Cleveland that fall, Ishrak said the medical device industry, and all of health care, had to change. “We’ve seen the cost of health care escalate,” he said. “There’s massive inefficiency in the system, and we feel that, unless that is addressed, the core innovation will start to suffer.”

Medtronic CEO Omar Ishrak. i David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Courting investors, Medtronic executives argued that the company’s Integrated Health Solutions model a single provider for a range of products and services — would help hospitals tamp down costs and improve healthcare delivery. It also would guarantee good prices on devices and transform Medtronic into a health care titan.

Medtronic agents fanned out to lobby government officials and hospital administrators, pitching an array of proposals to attract patients, improve care and boost income for operating rooms. Lavish gifts for doctors were replaced by other incentives to entice prospective clients: Implant devices, medical equipment and staff would all be provided for free under contracts that hospitals signed with the company. Medtronic would receive a percentage of increased hospital revenue generated as a result of more efficient management.

In 2017 in Toulouse, France, a renowned cardiac center, Pasteur Clinic, signed on. According to confidential documents obtained by ICIJ’s French partner, Radio France, Medtronic would provide the hospital with a state-of-the-art operating room and services such as consulting on patient management and helping to recruit patients from overseas. In exchange, the hospital would pay Medtronic a fee for each medical procedure the hospital completed, according to Radio France. If the hospital sold more than $5 million worth of Medtronic heart valves and other devices, it would receive free or discounted products.

Medtronic, the document says, expected to become the hospital’s primary source of replacement heart valves and to generate $21 million in sales for those devices over three years.

In response to Radio France, Pasteur Clinic confirmed the volume of Medtronic valves it purchased but declined to comment on the financial value of the contract, citing confidentiality.

Ishrak calls such arrangements a win-win for both sides, and some hospital administrators have praised Medtronic for delivering cutting-edge health care while reducing costs and saving money.

One of the first deals was struck in 2013 between Medtronic and the financially strapped Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust in London. “We’d agree to buy some of [Medtronic products] at negotiated prices, and the more devices we buy, the cheaper they get,” Dr. Kevin Fox, a cardiologist who helped forge the partnership, told the British Medical Journal, ICIJ’s U.K. partner. “We do use a fair amount of Medtronic equipment, but not exclusively,” Fox said.

Five years into the seven-year contract, there’s no real way to measure if the deal has improved care or if the London hospital has saved money, Fox said. He also told the journal he had received speaking fees from Medtronic but declined to say how much money the company paid him.

Some experts say the arrangements create conflicts of interests by tying free staff and better pricing to hospital revenue growth. As a result they can encourage use — or overuse — of Medtronic devices, even when other brands might be better for the patient.

“The profit motive will turn these healthcare systems into cash cows rather than service professions,” said Dr. Nortin Hadler, emeritus professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and author of seven books about health care policy. “I can envision a marketing slogan for my hospital along the lines of ‘What’s good for Medtronic, is good for the patient.’”

Former employees allege similar partnerships already have created incentives for doctors to use more Medtronic cardiac devices and insulin pumps.

In a pending whistleblower lawsuit in federal court in Pennsylvania, Cathleen Forney, a former Medtronic Pennsylvania district manager, said the Medtronic program provided “remuneration in the form of millions of dollars of staffing services to those who made purchasing decisions about Medtronic products.’’

Her lawsuit named doctors in 21 states who she said had illegally billed Medicare for procedures performed by Medtronic staff, including checking and programming patient devices. The system was a form of kickback, Forney claimed, because it allowed doctors to avoid hiring their own staff.

Medtronic said in a court filing that Forney’s lawsuit should be dismissed because giving product support services to doctors and hospitals is not an illegal kickback.

In its statement to ICIJ, the company denied its new model is intended to promote overtreatment or off-label use of its products. Medtronic said it is working closely with regulators and legislators to develop “a responsible and ethical framework” for the partnerships.

So far, Medtronic has sealed about 120 deals valued at $2.6 billion with hospitals in Europe, Canada, Latin America, the Mideast, Africa and the U.S. Customers include University Hospitals in Cleveland, Lehigh Valley Health Network in Pennsylvania and Gbagada Cardiac and Renal Centre in Lagos, Nigeria.

In Italy, some doctors and Medtronic rivals complained to Italian lawmakers that the new business model curbed competition and favored purchases of Medtronic devices. They said that Medtronic’s Italian subsidiary, NGC Medical S.p.A., provided only Medtronic products in some catheterization labs it managed.

In early 2017, Sen. Luigi Gaetti, a pathologist from Mantova, and other lawmakers called Medtronic’s behavior “anti-competitive” and asked government ministers to review the allegations. The Italian antitrust agency is now examining the matter, according to records obtained by Report, an Italian television news program and ICIJ partner.

ICIJ and reporters in Switzerland, the U.K., Italy, Mexico, Canada and the U.S. requested information about the deals from Medtronic’s hospital partners. The hospitals provided only limited information. The Lausanne University Hospital, the New Brunswick Heart Centre and University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center cited confidentiality clauses in the contracts.

Lehigh Valley spokesperson Brian Downs said that the partnership was too new to share details, but that Medtronic employees weren’t performing patient care.

Medtronic also declined to provide contract details, but it denied that the partnerships stifle competition or hurt consumers. “We do not control or direct health care professionals’ decision-making when it comes to patient care, the indications for procedures, the use of technology in patient care or the selection of specific medical devices,” spokesman Clark said.

People vs. Goliath

On a warm spring day last year, a thick envelope arrived at Joe Gartrell’s house in Orlando, Florida. He brought it inside and told his wife, Mildred: “This must be it.”

They opened it in their bedroom. “It” was an itemized closing statement showing his award, less certain deductions, from his settlement for a Medtronic Infuse operation to correct degenerative disc disease.

Gartrell’s heart sank. His wife’s face looked like “a deer in headlights,” he recalled in an interview. It wasn’t what they were expecting.

Medtronic has moved to resolve the final disputes over off-label use of Infuse. In the decade after the FDA warned about the bone-growth stimulator, reports filed with the agency have linked it potentially to 20 deaths and 10,000 injuries.

I was robbed of the earliest years to hold my children in my arms, help them with their first steps

– Jerome Lew

Last year, the company reached a confidential settlement in a civil racketeering lawsuit brought by U.S. insurer Humana, accusing Medtronic of skewing studies on Infuse. Medtronic also resolved deceptive marketing lawsuits brought by five state attorneys general in the U.S. for $12 million. And it paid $43 million in July to end an investors’ lawsuit alleging that company-manipulated Infuse studies had artificially inflated the stock price.

Medtronic denied wrongdoing in each case. In its statement to ICIJ, the company said it continues to seek new uses for Infuse, calling the product safe, extensively studied and an option for patients requiring certain types of spinal and trauma procedures.

After a hit-and-run accident, in May 2009 Hollywood screenwriter Jerome Lew had Infuse placed in his neck, off-label, along with a cage that also was not approved for use in the neck. The operation, performed by a doctor at the University of California, Los Angeles, with financial ties to Medtronic, left Lew with nerve pain, problems swallowing and hands and arms limp, he said. “I was robbed of the earliest years to hold my children in my arms, help them with their first steps,” he said. Lew, now 55, won an undisclosed sum from the company and $4.2 million from UCLA.

The family of six-month-old Hailey Starr Reuter received a $650,000 settlement from the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center for the actions of doctors who operated on the baby. She underwent a cranial procedure with Infuse, which was not authorized for pediatric patients, without her parents’ consent. Infuse caused Hailey’s head circumference to stop growing, her family said, because it caused an area of her skull to fuse prematurely. It led to three additional cranial and facial procedures.

“Her scars now run from one ear to the other ear,” her mom, Tricia, said in an interview.

Gartrell, the 55-year-old former PepsiCo account executive who had received the settlement statement, now walks with a cane. He feels numbness in his legs and can no longer spear-fish or scuba dive.

He was used as a “guinea pig” in the operating room in May 2006, he said, and no amount of money would compensate for what happened to him — but it would help.

Last year, Medtronic reported it had reached agreements to settle most of the 6,000 injury claims relating to Infuse.

Gartrell glanced at the final settlement — $105,000. Then he read through the deductions.

All he really wanted was a big enough check to pay his medical bill. That, he said, and an apology.

After legal fees, expert costs, copying expenses and a litigation loan, he got nothing.

Not even the apology.

Contributors: Cat Ferguson, Emilia Diaz-Struck, Rigoberto Carvajal, Petra Blum, Christian Baars, Paolo Biondani, Laetitia Cherel, Allan de Abreu, Minna Knus-Galan, Caroline Kubzansky, Jeanne Lenzer, Boyoung Lim, Jesse McLean, Marie Parvex, Kaunain Sheriff, Colm Keena, Giulio Valesini, Christoph Giesen, Holbrook Mohr and Elena Kuch.-------------------Medical Devices Harm Patients Worldwide As Governments Fail On Safety





From Amsterdam, Seoul, Lima and Mumbai, to the small American town of Hiawassee, Georgia, medical implants sicken, maim and sometimes kill the very people they were designed to help.

Health authorities across the globe have failed to protect millions of patients from poorly tested implants that can puncture organs, deliver errant shocks to the heart, rot bones and poison blood, spew overdoses of opioids and cause other needless harm, a year-long investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists found.

Governments hold even complex implants to a lower safety testing standard than most new drugs. Flawed devices linger on the market as injuries mount. Under a free-for-all global system, device companies pull implants in some countries while continuing to sell them in others.

For most people, medical devices are of clear benefit, and complex implants can radically improve health, even save lives. But ICIJ’s reporting calls into question whether the device industry — which touches the lives of billions of people — is unnecessarily putting millions of patients at risk of serious harm in its quest for profit.

Across the planet, in hundreds of interviews with ICIJ as part of the Implant Files investigation, patients said they were not warned of crucial risks of their implants and described an array of grisly complications.

It’s unacceptable to keep maintaining this sytem.

– Carl Heneghan

In South Africa, 51-year-old Renate Scheepers is scheduled for surgery this month to have a mesh implant intended to treat incontinence removed from around her bladder, after enduring years of recurring bouts of excruciating abdominal pain. More than 100,000 women worldwide have filed lawsuits against manufacturers charging that they were harmed by faulty mesh products.

In India, Vijay Vojhala, a 44-year-old Mumbai-based former hospital equipment salesman, suffers from vision problems, difficulty walking and irregular heart rhythms that he attributes to his Johnson & Johnson replacement hip, blamed for poisoning thousands of patients. More than half a million people were implanted with such “metal-on-metal” hips before they were recalled or pulled from the market.

In the U.S., 27-year-old Charlissa Dawn Boyce died after an implantable defibrillator recalled by St. Jude Medical for battery problems failed to shock her heart back into rhythm, her family claims in a lawsuit filed in Tennessee. Nearly 350,000 of the devices were implanted in patients around the world before being subjected to a massive recall for having defective batteries in 2016.

“It’s unacceptable to keep maintaining this system,” said Carl Heneghan, a clinical epidemiologist at Oxford University in England who has written extensively about medical device regulation. “At some point patients stick their hands up and say we’re suffering catastrophic harm. But when that happens, it’s often [years] down the road when significant number of people have already been hurt.”

The Implant Files is the first-ever global examination of the medical device industry and its overseers. ICIJ journalists and a team of more than 250 reporters and data specialists from 58 news organizations in 36 countries examined hundreds of cases like these from all over the globe. The inquiry builds on reporting in the Netherlands by Jet Schouten, an investigative journalist for Dutch Public Broadcasting, who was part of the international team.

The Implant Files reporting reveals a fiercely competitive industry that has repeatedly run afoul of global law enforcement, financial and health authorities, and has used its formidable lobbying clout to pressure regulators to speed approvals and lower safety standards. Manufacturers have paid at least $1.6 billion since 2008 to settle charges of corruption, fraud and other violations with regulators in the U.S. and other countries, according to an ICIJ review of data from the U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

They have also paid billions of dollars to patients. Since 2015, one company alone, Johnson & Johnson, has agreed to pay — or been ordered to pay — $4.3 billion to people in the U.S. who claim they were injured by defective hips, mesh and surgical staplers.

Governments in dozens of countries in Africa, Asia and South America don’t regulate medical devices at all, instead placing their trust in European authorities or in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which is generally considered to provide more robust oversight than any other health agency in the world.

Yet even that oversight is lacking, with complex devices approved too quickly by American authorities, and troublesome ones not pulled from hospital shelves fast enough, patient advocates and health experts say. The FDA is now exploring further loosening its rules in order to get some new devices onto the market with substantially less testing than before, a move seen as part of a broader effort to bolster the U.S. as a competitor to Europe, which offers manufacturers an even faster path to approval of new products.

Over the course of The Implant Files investigation, ICIJ and its partners filed more than 1,500 public records requests and collected more than 8 million device-related health records. These include recall notices; safety warnings; legal documents and corporate financial filings.

More than 5.4 million “adverse event” reports sent to the FDA over the last decade make up the greatest share of this trove. These reports come from doctors, manufacturers, patients and even lawyers, and describe cases where a device is suspected to have caused or contributed to a serious injury or death, or has experienced a malfunction that would likely lead to harm if it were to recur.

Medical devices that broke, misfired, corroded, ruptured or otherwise malfunctioned after implantation or use — despite assurances by regulators, the industry and doctors that they were safe — were linked to more than 1.7 million injuries and nearly 83,000 deaths over the last decade, an ICIJ analysis found. Nearly 500,000 reports mentioned an explant — a surgery to remove a device — in connection with an adverse event.

In some cases, the connection between the harm described in an adverse event report and the device isn’t clear, and the FDA says that conclusions about a device’s safety or role in an injury or death cannot be made from an adverse event alone.

Nevertheless, ICIJ’s analysis, which included identifying devices listed at times under hundreds of different brand names or spellings, gives a never-before-seen view of medical product harm.

But the data only tell part of the story. Doctors and manufacturers often fail to report adverse events, and when they do the information can be unverified and incomplete. And over large swaths of the planet, health authorities refuse to disclose information about harm to the public — or just never collect it in the first place.

In the European Union, regulators have been gathering rapidly rising numbers of injury and malfunction reports each year but refuse to publish the data, claiming that to do so would give away confidential commercial information and unnecessarily scare the public. In Chile, health authorities told ICIJ partners that adverse event reporting was voluntary for implanted devices and that in a decade they had received four “relevant” reports, only one for an implanted device. In Mexico, authorities don’t share adverse event data with the public.

When device manufacturers and regulators do learn of problems, word often doesn’t reach doctors, let alone patients. Manufacturers have issued recalls or safety alerts, which can range from simple label changes to the immediate removal of a device from the market, in some countries but not others. And while the auto industry can generally reach owners of cars to tell them of safety issues that require fixes, the device industry and its hospital customers often can’t find people with implants.

Because no global resource for recalls and safety notices exists, ICIJ decided to build one. The International Medical Devices Database (IMDD) for the first time gathers recalls, safety alerts and field safety notices — more than 70,000 from 11 countries — to create a searchable portal that anyone can access to help discover whether a device was flagged for official safety concern. Because there’s no agreed-upon method for identifying devices, ICIJ created tools to give users the ability to research the safety history of their devices, even if described differently in other countries.

ICIJ’s analysis of the IMDD data showed that over the decade, manufacturers issued more than 2,100 “class one” recalls in the U.S. for defects deemed to pose a “reasonable chance” of “serious health problems or death.” Some could be addressed easily, with a quick software update or a change of wording in the instructions, while others involved devices implanted in millions of patients that spurred thousands of surgical removals.

An aging population and a growing business

The device business is big, and growing fast. Annual industry sales more than doubled from about $118 billion in 2000 to about $400 billion in 2018. A fund composed of leading medical device stocks returned a sparkling 125 percent in the last five years as of Nov. 14, compared to 52 percent for the broader economy reflected in the Standard & Poor’s 500.

The biggest market for devices — people 65 or older — will grow by more than 60 percent to nearly 1 billion people by 2030, a UBS investment analyst noted.

The industry has countless success stories to celebrate. Pacemakers have revitalized or saved the lives of millions of patients with heart disease. Orthopedic implants, among the most popular type of medical device, have gotten millions more back on their feet, even people with bone cancer. According to AdvaMed, the foremost U.S. trade group for medical device manufacturers, intraocular lens implants have restored the sight of 36 million people in the U.S. alone.

In February, Omar Ishrak, the CEO of Medtronic, the world’s biggest device maker, said his company’s products make life better for more than 70 million new patients a year — improving two lives every second.

In written comments to ICIJ, AdvaMed emphasized that implants are far harder than drugs to randomize during clinical trials and argued that medical devices should thus be evaluated differently from pharmaceuticals. “To suggest that human trial mandates would end future harm misleads both the patient and the public into falsely thinking that all adverse events can be erased through such trials,” said Janet Trunzo, AdvaMed’s head of technology and regulatory affairs.

AdvaMed also disputed that the industry has problems reaching patients after recalls. “High-risk medical devices, especially life-sustaining implants, have specific tracking procedures in place to ensure companies can quickly notify patients and providers of any significant issues,” Trunzo said.

#FDA has set important new goal when it comes to device safety: ensuring that we’re consistently first in the world to identify and act upon device safety signals to protect patients. https://t.co/9AurKaim6v pic.twitter.com/IATHeEUgHe — Scott Gottlieb, M.D. (@SGottliebFDA) November 20, 2018

In extensive written answers to ICIJ questions, the FDA said patient safety “is and will remain a cornerstone” of its regulatory commitment. It acknowledged long-standing “limitations” in its ability to “promptly and consistently” identify safety risks after a device has been released to the market and said it is leading the effort to create a program that scans clinical information and other data to detect problems more quickly.

On Tuesday, five days before the Implant Files was published, the agency announced it was setting an “important and ambitious new goal” to be “consistently first among the world’s regulatory agencies to identify and act upon safety signals related to medical devices.”

Even the device industry’s severest critics acknowledge that it is impossible to create products, especially those that provide life-sustaining functions that do not put patients at risk.

But time and again, patients have been exposed to products that caused serious and preventable harm. Those accidents often unfold in the shadows, in slow motion, over years, in bedrooms and in hospitals around the world.

Essure, a coil-shaped metal contraceptive, was put in the fallopian tubes of more than a million women. Thousands later reported grisly injuries, including perforation of the uterus, causing pain and bleeding. U.S. adverse event data analyzed by ICIJ includes descriptions of nearly 8,500 events over the last decade that required Essure’s removal.

Misty Holliman says she was not warned about health risks associated with Essure before it was implanted. i Can Turkyilmaz / ICIJ

In 2017, Bayer wrote to European doctors asking them to halt use of the product and to “temporarily quarantine remaining inventory until further notice.” The company soon suspended sales in every country but the U.S.

In May 2018, Misty Holliman, a 26-year-old mother of four living outside Irving, Texas, was implanted with Essure. She is one of more than 200 medical device patients who told ICIJ or a partner that they were not informed of crucial health risks prior to implantation.

In July, Bayer announced it would stop selling it in the U.S. by the end of the year. In comments to ICIJ, Bayer said its decision to withdraw the devices globally was due to business reasons rather than safety concerns and cited an overall decline in the use of permanent contraceptives as well as “inaccurate and misleading publicity about the device.” Bayer also noted that women suing the company have generated many of the adverse event reports submitted to the FDA.

Holliman now suffers severe pelvic pain. She may need a full hysterectomy, and can’t afford the procedure. “I can’t see what’s going on inside of my body,” she said, “and I can’t take it out.”

A regulatory afterthought

Modern testing requirements for new drugs were forged in the wake of a medical scandal that shook the world. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, thalidomide, a drug sold to women as a treatment for morning sickness, caused tens of thousands of children to be born with malformed limbs and a wide variety of other birth defects. Up to 40 percent of babies with significant exposure died in infancy, and many women experienced stillbirths and miscarriages.

A flood of new pharmaceuticals regulations emerged in response. Despite the huge associated costs, drug makers were required to show clinical evidence demonstrating that their products were safe and effective before they could come to market.

The device industry was a regulatory afterthought, and evaded full oversight until 1976 in the U.S. and 1990 in Europe. From the beginning, the industry argued that its devices should be treated differently from drugs.

The internationally accepted criteria for approving almost all new drugs is that at least one randomized controlled trial, in human test patients, has to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Throughout the world, the standard for approving new devices is lower.

In U.S., drug makers must show “substantial evidence” of a new product’s safety and effectiveness, and usually require three trials. For devices, the benchmark is “reasonable assurance,” which usually means a single study and no randomized controlled trials, in which groups of patients get different treatments, and outcomes are compared.

But even this standard is often just in theory. Less than 5 percent of devices reviewed by the FDA undergo so-called premarket approval. Regulators allow major — and sometimes fateful — changes to devices under pathways meant for incremental updates.

Most devices are approved through pathways that clear devices based on whether they are “substantially equivalent” to devices already on the market, or to an earlier version of the same product.

Sometimes after a chain of these equivalence-based approvals, a new device scarcely resembles the original version. Research published by the BMJ, an ICIJ partner, traced the family tree of 61 surgical mesh products to two original devices approved in 1985 and 1996. None had completed clinical trials at the time of approval.

Patients who take poor quality drugs can throw the pill bottle in the trash, said Adriane Fugh-Berman, a Georgetown University professor who studies healthcare marketing practices. People with an unnecessary or poorly functioning implant may end up with it inside their body for the rest of their lives. “You may be crippled forever,” she said.

Defibrillator failure: ‘Hit by lightning’

In 2004, Medtronic won approval for an updated version of a lead, or wire, used to connect its implantable defibrillator to the heart. Called the Sprint Fidelis, the lead was much thinner than previous versions, an innovation considered an advantage because thin wires are more nimble and easier to bend.

Over the next three years, the Sprint Fidelis was implanted in an estimated 268,000 patients worldwide.

In January 2007, 32-year-old Sherry Robinson was preparing for bed at her home in Sechelt, a coastal community outside Vancouver, Canada, when a stunning jolt in her chest thrust her forward. “I saw this white light through my eyes. It hurt like hell. I thought, ‘I‘ve been hit by lightning.’”

Robinson’s device is designed to shock hearts back into rhythm, but hospital tests showed it was misfiring. Before it was deactivated, a defective Sprint Fidelis lead shocked Robinson 18 times.

“[A]lmost no one can tolerate multiple shocks,” a cardiologist quoted in a Congressional Research Service report published nearly a decade later said. “[A]fter a second or third shock, anxiety from the possibility of more shocks progresses quickly to near terror.”

Later that month, doctors removed the malfunctioning device — another surgery — but then simply put in another Sprint Fidelis.

In July 2007, a Minnesota cardiologist published a study showing Sprint Fidelis failed at a higher than expected rate and was inappropriately shocking patients, or failing to work.

The company recalled the device and took it off the market in October 2007.

Citing five patient deaths that may have been related to fractured Sprint Fidelis leads, the company recalled the device and took it off the market in October 2007.

Two years later, Medtronic acknowledged that malfunctioning Sprint Fidelis leads may have caused 13 deaths, though it was not clear if these were in addition to the five mentioned in the company’s recall announcement.

Its performance deteriorated over time. A 2015 study of nearly 1,000 patients in France found that in fact more than one in five leads fractured after five years. Younger, more active patients were especially vulnerable.

An ICIJ analysis of FDA adverse event reports shows that in the last decade Medtronic and other adverse event reporters linked Sprint Fidelis models to more than 8,000 injuries and 2,000 deaths.

Even though the Sprint Fidelis was considered a high-risk device by the FDA, it wasn’t subjected to patient testing: the agency approved it through a “supplement” to a version approved more than a decade earlier.

Medtronic did not respond to a specific question about Sprint Fidelis, but said it does not bring a device or therapy to market “unless and until we have confirmed that the product is safe and effective in treating the medical condition at issue.” The company also said it continues to monitor the safety and performance of its devices after they are on the market.

Fast lane approvals

New versions of high-risk devices have also come to market through a substantial equivalence fastlane called 510(k). In 2009, a Government Accountability Office review criticized the FDA for continuing to approve high-risk devices through 510(k) despite a decades-old congressional order not to.

Two years later, the Institute of Medicine, now a unit of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, urged the FDA to scrap the 510(k) program altogether. The FDA rejected the recommendation, deeming it unfeasible.

Janice Hogan, a device-industry lawyer trained in biomechanical engineering, cautioned that while some 510(k) applications are relatively simple, many do include extensive human trials and thousands of pages of documentation. “The FDA has substantial discretion about what data is required.”

In written answers to questions posed by ICIJ, the FDA said it didn’t clear any high-risk devices through 510(k) in 2017.

“For the past few years, the FDA has made a concerted effort to assure we require the appropriate level of testing,” the agency said in written responses to ICIJ questions. In some cases, the FDA may require “exhaustive testing” for devices subject to a 510(k), requiring more evidence, the agency said.

Clinical testing, and patient trials, are not appropriate and not needed for most devices, the FDA said. Eliminating fast-lane approvals “would not necessarily provide better patient safeguards, but would result in unnecessary costs and delays while diverting FDA staff resources away from studying and evaluating higher-risk and novel devices,” the FDA said.

Trunzo, the AdvaMed spokesperson, challenged the notion that robust clinical trials are necessary for device approvals, arguing that other forms of non-clinical testing, like lab tests, can produce more accurate conclusions.

The European edge

The European Union’s system of approving implants is even more business-friendly. In fact, it’s a business.

Device manufacturers pay private companies, known as notified bodies, to certify that high- and medium-risk devices meet European safety standards.

Large players, including BSI Group in the U.K. and Germany’s TUV Rheinland and TUV Sud, stamp medical devices with the same CE mark that appears on many consumer goods in Europe — toasters, fireworks, children’s toys — certifying that they have met “essential requirements” for safety and environmental protections.

Among the advantages for industry, most notified bodies are exempt from laws requiring government agencies to make public records related to device approvals. In the case of implants, that’s especially a concern. According to a March 2016 email between top health officials in Germany and Denmark, regulators in the EU have no clinical data on an estimated 90 percent of highest risk devices because they were assessed as sufficiently similar to existing products.

Patient advocates have long fought to scrap the notified body system, calling it secretive, deeply conflicted and prone to allowing disastrous devices on the market.

Even so, the CE mark is accepted around the world, making Europe an important device industry entry point. In Saudi Arabia, India, the Philippines, Singapore and much of Latin America, devices are waved through, or subjected to less scrutiny, if they have already been certified as safe in Europe.

Lowered barriers, a rush to market

Device makers compete to bring new devices to market and introduce new models with new features to improve quality and drive sales. Wall Street analysts closely track the time it takes to clear regulatory hurdles. Experts estimate the standard lifecycle of a device before it’s replaced by the next model is now just 18 to 24 months.

And as the industry has grown, so has the complexity of its devices.

Boston Scientific Corp., Medtronic, Abbott Laboratories and other device makers sell implants called vagus nerve stimulators that send electrical pulses to the brain, neck or abdomen to combat ailments ranging from back pain to chronic hiccups and depression. Collapsible heart valves, made by Edwards Lifesciences and other companies, can be delivered through a small incision and into the heart using steerable catheters, opening to their full size on reaching their destination like ships in a bottle. Medtronic makes a fully implantable “pain pump” that sends microdoses of pain-killing drugs into the spinal column and generates performance reports patients can read on a tablet. These devices provide benefits — but also create risks.

Sometimes risk-reward calculations can be exquisitely fine. For instance, the collapsible heart valve, called transcatheter aortic valve replacement, or TAVR in the U.S., makes sense for the very old or sick because it eliminates the need for traumatic open heart surgery. But no one knows how long they last, so it makes less sense the younger and healthier the patient. But how young, and how healthy?

Being first to market with a ground-breaking product can make a company’s year.

In 2014, Dan Starks, then-chief executive of St. Jude Medical Inc., appeared on CNBC’s stock picking TV show “Mad Money,” pulled an implant smaller than a AAA-battery from his pocket, and held it up as the camera zoomed in. It was Nanostim, the first pacemaker without leads, the thin wires connecting device to heart that had long caused manufacturers problems. “We think that this stands to revolutionize the field,” Starks said.

Nanostim’s leadless design was a major selling point. Fracturing or otherwise malfunctioning leads, like the Sprint Fidelis, had bedeviled previous cardiac implants.

“I can tell you that we had the first implant with this technology in Great Britain just in this last week, and the implant time in the hands of that particular physician [was] eight minutes,” Stark said on Mad Money.

The patient was Maureen McCleave, a 77-year-old grandmother, from London. “I feel like I’m a new woman,” she told the Daily Mail newspaper in one of several interviews arranged by St. Jude shortly after she left hospital. “If I’d had a traditional pacemaker fitted, I’d probably still be in hospital now, and I certainly wouldn’t be feeling as good as I do now.”

Three months after the operation, St. Jude revealed the first concerns about Nanostim. Doctors had found that six out of 147 patients participating in a European trial had suffered a perforated heart muscle. Two had died. Later, Nanostim’s battery failed in several other patients, rendering their pacemakers useless.

Battery issues became so prevalent that in 2016, St. Jude, asked doctors using Nanostim to “pause” and stop implanting new ones. That pause has lasted ever since.

At the end of 2016, McCleave began to have heart palpitations and feel tired. “I knew something was wrong somewhere,” she told ICIJ media partners.

At a hospital, a nurse explained that her pacemaker had stopped. McCleave, by then 80-years-old, needed further surgery, and quickly. Although Nanostim had been marketed with a battery life of up to 19 years — six years longer than a standard pacemaker — McCleave’s had failed in three.

Traditional pacemakers are relatively easy to replace once the battery dies. They sit just beneath the skin, below the collar bone, and work by sending electrical impulses to the heart through leads that can remain in place if a replacement pacing device is required. Extracting a Nanostim from inside the heart is much more of an ordeal.

McCleave’s second operation was difficult. Surgeons implanted another pacemaker and left the failed Nanostim in place, deeming it too dangerous to remove. “It was a lot of trouble because I bled so much,” McCleave said.

A Medtronic employee, in Mexico, works on a TAVR. i Getty Images

St. Jude’s futuristic heart implant had been certified as safe with only minimal testing. The European Union requires most drugs undergo at least one clinical trial in hundreds or thousands of patients to determine safety and effectiveness. Nanostim had been tested on 33 human patients, and for a relatively short time — 90 days. The only other test subjects were 30 sheep.

McCleave said no one from St Jude, now part of Abbott Laboratories, spoke to her about why her Nanostim had failed. “I felt like a bit of trash that had been thrown to one side,” she said.

Lobbying changes U.S. tune

In the past, regulators in the U.S. have bluntly criticized device regulation in the rest of the world generally, and in Europe in particular.

“We don’t use our people as guinea pigs in the U.S.,” the FDA’s device chief, Dr. Jeffrey Shuren, said in a 2011 call with reporters during a congressional fight over whether to adopt more European style rules in the U.S. The remark triggered a diplomatic flap.

In 2012, the FDA issued a report that called out by name “unsafe and ineffective devices” approved with limited testing in the EU. The list includes stent grafts used to repair aneurysms, or ballooning, in aortic walls. The FDA found that many presented “severe risks to patients,” according to the report, “including blood clots, graft failure and aneurysm rupture.”

The next year, the FDA broadcast a different message: that the U.S. will strive to be “first in the world” as an entry point for devices important to the public health. Under Trump, who has vowed to cut regulations, the FDA has proposed to fast-track pre-market testing for some high-risk devices. This move could trim years of testing prior to a product’s launch, and save companies millions of dollars. In a speech to an industry group in May, Shuren acknowledged that the proposed policy meant “essentially accepting a bit more uncertainty” in some cases.

In 2017, the FDA approved more than three times as many devices as it did in 2010, while its warnings to device manufacturers about product safety fell by nearly 80 percent.

The FDA told ICIJ that its “first in the world” objective reflects concerns about delays that prevent “pioneering new technologies” from reaching U.S. patients faster than those in other developed countries, and that it remains committed to ensuring that those devices are safe and effective.

Though the agency is issuing fewer warning letters, it is conducting more factory inspections, the FDA said.

Critics say the tone from the FDA signals a concerning shift toward an agenda promoted by the industry. “The deregulatory tenor of the last several years raises real questions about whether the agency is adequately able to protect the American public from unsafe or ineffective devices,” said Dr. Peter Lurie, a former FDA associate commissioner.

The medical device lobby is a force in Washington. Over a 10-year period through 2017, the industry has spent more than $335 million to influence legislation, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The device industry also funds 35 percent of the FDA device program’s budget through “user fees” that are renegotiated every five years.

These fees give industry leverage to reshape its regulator, according to Dr. Michael Carome, director of Public Citizen’s Health Research Group. The outcome of fee negotiations “often amounts to an industry wishlist,” Carome said.

The industry’s formidable presence at the agency is also evidenced in the decades-long controversy over the safety of breast implants. After a virtual ban, and a fierce internal fight, the FDA allowed the silicone version back on the market in 2006 — even though data showing the long-term safety of the product remained limited.

“They were tenacious,” said Susan Wood, director of the FDA’s Office of Women’s Health from 2000 to 2005. “Unlike other companies, after being told no, they came back. And back and back and back. They just wore down any resistance.”

A breach of trust

After regulators, a final line of defense stands between a patient and a bad device: her doctor.

But that line, too, has been breached.

Cardiologists, orthopedists and other doctors who implant medical devices are influenced by a wide range of sources, including medical conferences, training seminars and sales representatives. It is common practice for those representatives to join surgeons in the operating room, offering advice on complicated devices they sell.

In 2016, Georgetown University researchers found that company-sponsored events and company employees in operating rooms undermine doctors’ independence and ability to choose the best treatment. One hospital administrator cited in the study described the relationship between surgeons and sales reps as an “incestuous bucket of worms.”

Physicians and manufacturers are, in some cases, in business together. The companies pay royalties for technologies developed with doctors, and give them research grants and stock options, creating a conflict of interest that has frequently drawn the attention of government authorities.

In the U.S., where drug and device manufacturers are required to disclose payments to physicians, the 10 largest medical device companies paid nearly $600 million to doctors or their hospitals last year, according to an ICIJ analysis of data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. This figure doesn’t include device-related payments from heavyweights that sell other products, including Johnson & Johnson and Allergan.

One Los Angeles orthopedic surgeon, Thomas Schmalzried, earned nearly $30 million in royalties and other payments from Johnson & Johnson for his role in designing two metal-on-metal hip replacement systems, one the subject of a global recall. Those devices were later pulled from the market amid concerns they shed dangerous levels of metal ions.

Schmalzried didn’t respond to ICIJ requests seeking comment. Johnson & Johnson said that while Schmalzried did receive royalties, he received none for products he used in his practice or that were implanted in hospitals where he had privileges. The company said its policies bar such payments.

Device companies have funneled money, sometimes via offshore accounts, to third-party distributors who then paid surgeons or sham nonprofits that doctors set up to receive the payments, according to U.S. and Italian prosecution documents.

After a series of scandals that led to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act of 2010, a U.S. law that forced disclosure of these payments, the device industry’s trade association revised its ethics code. The group called for “modest” and “reasonable” compensation for doctors participating in company-sponsored events and restrictions on royalties and consultancy agreements.

Over the last decade, the European trade association has strengthened its ethics code from 15 to 61 pages, even warning companies of “potential adverse public perceptions” of the location chosen for sponsored events. “Cruise ships, golf clubs or health spas and venues renowned for their entertainment facilities are not appropriate venues,” the code reads.

Yet law enforcement officials have continued to accuse device companies of misconduct. Doctors, company insiders and government authorities have alleged in court cases that sales representatives are influencing surgeons’ clinical decisions and encouraging them to use products in unapproved ways.

Both Fortune 500 companies like Medtronic and smaller industry players have been the subjects of such allegations.

In 2014, Biotronik, a German medical device maker, paid $4.9 million to settle charges brought by the U.S. Justice Department that it paid kickbacks to doctors and illegally promoted its cardiac devices for treatments that were not authorized by regulators.

The company’s sales representatives rewarded physicians who promoted unauthorized therapies and implanted large numbers of Biotronik devices with tickets to sports events, golf outings and lavish meals, according to Brian Sant, a Biotronik employee-turned-whistleblower whose lawsuit sparked the government investigation. “It’s almost like an annuity,” a sales manager wrote in an email cited in Sant’s complaint, referring to payouts doctors could receive for enrolling patients in company-sponsored studies.

In a written response to ICIJ, Biotronik said that “its practices were lawful and ethical.” It also said the government didn’t pursue allegations into Biotronik’s training practices or education programs.

Governments around the world have also found manufacturers guilty of paying hospital administrators and physicians with Armani watches and expensive vacation packages to increase sales and secure contracts. In Mexico, a company’s employees in charge of bribing physicians had a code word for illicit payments: chocolates.

A Johnson & Johnson implant sales representative in Italy is on trial for bribing a prominent Milan surgeon with more than $20,000, along with expensive trips, dinners and more for him and his son, in exchange for the surgeon implanting J&J artificial joints and promoting its brand on TV shows. The company said it cannot comment on the specifics of this ongoing case but added that it “has fully cooperated with the investigation.”

In response to ICIJ, Matt Wetzel, AdvaMed’s associate general counsel, said the industry is “dedicated to doing business the right way, and medtech companies have invested countless resources – both capital and human – in developing leading edge compliance programs.”

The hidden harm

With barriers lowered for new implants coming to market, more responsibility shifts to watching for problems and informing patients when they arise.

The U.S. has the most public data – by a long shot – about implants that maim and kill. The FDA keeps it in the “Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience” database, known as MAUDE.

But, for the vast amount of its data, MAUDE relies on device companies themselves. By law, they are supposed to collect complaints from doctors, hospitals, patients, lawyers and others and pass them along to the FDA.

In practice, device companies frequently supply information that is wrong or misleading, or they don’t report it at all.

Between 2008 and 2018, FDA inspectors cited manufacturers more than 4,400 times for violating its complaint-handling policy. Each violation can cover hundreds or even thousands of mishandled, lost or buried complaints.

The FDA cited a Cleveland, Ohio-based Philips Healthcare facility for mishandling thousands of complaints about medical imaging equipment that revealed high risk problems that could cause injuries or even deaths, including reports that body scanners had mixed up images among patients. In written answers to ICIJ, Philips noted that no patients were harmed in the incidents and that its records review team had evaluated all the complaints.

When companies do report adverse events, they sometimes cloak their severity. ICIJ found that manufacturers have classified an event as a “malfunction” or “injury” even if the patient died.

Using a machine learning algorithm to search millions of reports, ICIJ found 2,100 cases where people died, but their deaths were classified as malfunctions or injuries. Of these, 220 reports showed that devices may have caused or contributed to the deaths. The other reports did not include enough information to determine conclusively if the device played a role in the patients’ deaths.

FDA guidelines call on manufacturers to report deaths that may be related to their devices, even if the connection is uncertain.

The FDA uses adverse event reports to help identify dangerous devices. “If a death is classified as a malfunction, it’s possible it never gets read at all,” said Madris Tomes, a former FDA data specialist who runs a company that analyzes adverse events.

Dr. Jacob Shani, chairman of cardiology at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, New York, said that adverse event information provided by manufacturers and physicians is essential for deciding which product to implant. “If you don’t have transparency, and you don’t have honesty, then forget it,” Shani said.

Broken alarm system

The reports that do ultimately get to regulators can trigger actions including safety alerts or recalls. These can require hospitals to remove devices from their shelves or, depending on the severity, even unleash a wave of surgeries to remove devices from patients.

Whether a product is recalled or restricted may depend on where you live, ICIJ found. Over the past year, health authorities in New Zealand, Ireland, Scotland and England heavily restricted the use of the type of vaginal mesh used to treat incontinence or to hold reproductive and other organs in place while regulators studied the devices’ safety. But the products have remained largely on the open market in other countries, including Canada and South Africa, where Renate Scheepers received hers.

Government-overseen safety alerts, often called “recalls” in the U.S. or “field safety notices” elsewhere, can range from simple label changes to immediate removal of a device from the market. Manufacturers also in some cases quietly pull products from the market without admitting fault.

Experts told ICIJ that governments must issue recall and safety alert notices so patients and doctors are aware of problems. An ICIJ analysis found that some governments post notices frequently and some almost never do. Health regulators in Mexico only shared information on two issued recalls, ever. In the U.S., the FDA has published more than 26,000 in the last decade.

When it comes to protecting the people who will suffer… the system is absolutely in shambles.

– Hanifa Koya

A metal-on-metal hip manufactured by Indiana-based Biomet has been linked to flesh-rotting metallosis, and the company discontinued sales of the device several years ago. Biomet later sent safety alerts to surgeons and other health care providers in Australia, the U.K. and a slew of other Western European countries in 2015 and 2016, but not to those in Canada and the U.S. Had the FDA pushed for a recall of the Biomet hip device in the U.S., the company could have been forced to send such letters to American doctors.

“We adhere to strict regulatory standards and work closely with the FDA and all applicable regulatory agencies in each of our regions as part of our commitment to operating a first-rate quality management system across our global manufacturing network,” the company, now called Zimmer Biomet, said in a statement.

In a statement to ICIJ, the FDA pointed to a generalized safety communication it had posted online in 2011 about metal-on-metal hips as a reason for not requiring a recall of the Biomet hip.

Officials often can’t find patients with problem devices – or even the doctors who implanted them. Harold Paz, chief medical officer and executive vice president at Aetna, one of the largest health insurers in the U.S., noted the automobile industry’s comparatively good track record for reaching owners of recalled cars.

“We currently have no way to identify which of our members has received the affected implant,” Paz said.

Patients living with already recalled devices inside them said they were left in the dark about problems. In interviews with ICIJ’s global partners, hundreds of implant recipients said doctors never warned them of risks and didn’t tell them about recalls or safety alerts.

Connie Hill, a 72-year-old resident of Sun City, Arizona, is one of several patients who say they wished they would have known earlier of foreign safety alerts of the Biomet hip implant. “I never heard a damn thing about it,” Hill told ICIJ.

Mending a ‘broken system’

In the early 1990s, an Australian orthopedic surgeon named Stephen Graves was growing increasingly uneasy about the medical devices he was implanting. The hip and knee replacement products carried both huge benefits to patients and also huge risks — but he had little clue as to which device was safer than another. “We didn’t know how many or what types of devices were going in,” Graves said. “And we didn’t know the comparative performance of the devices.”

In 1996, Graves began working with a group of fellow surgeons to establish a central database to track Australians with hip and knee implants and monitor their health. Within a few years, Graves’ national device registry was logging the vast majority hip and knee replacements in Australia — and revealing dozens of problem devices.

In 2009, Australian regulators would use Graves’ data to raise early safety concerns about Johnson & Johnson’s ASR XL, the metal-on-metal hip brand implanted in Vijay Vojhala of Mumbai. To date, the registry has identified more than 150 poorly performing joint replacement products, Graves said.

An X-Ray of a hip replacement. i BSIP/UIG via Getty Images

A better system for tracking devices after they go on the market enjoys broad support among industry, physician and patient advocates. Dr. Henrik Malchau, a Swedish orthopedic surgeon who has helped establish several national registries, said they allow authorities to alert doctors and patients of problems. Pointing to the Australian case, he said: “The beauty of it was that they could go back and find all the patients.”

After recent high-profile device recalls, India is considering a proposal to create its own joint replacement registry, while others are advancing in Finland, Norway and the U.K., Malchau said.

The U.S. remains a laggard. In an effort to improve post-implant surveillance of devices, the FDA is attempting to unify various private registries with insurance claims data into a single centralized system.

But this program relies largely on the success of a related FDA initiative calling for each device to be assigned a unique identification number in order to make them more traceable — a step taken long ago by auto regulators. While a “Unique Device Identifier” (UDI) program could usher an age of more advanced postmarket surveillance, its full implementation is years away. One potential hurdle: the federal government has yet to issue final rules mandating device identifiers to be included in electronic health records and in insurance claims data — crucial ways that the initiative can be used to help track patients and the performance of their devices.[5]

And the prospect of a globally harmonized UDI system — now under discussion by medical device regulators — remains even more distant.

Hanifa Koya, a gynecologist in Wellington, New Zealand, who has performed many gruesome surgeries to remove defective meshes, said keeping track of devices sold and implanted is basic. “If surgeons are looking to constantly adopt innovative devices but not asking for a registry, then this is a broken system,” she said.

Koya said hospital ethics panels should have the power to bar doctors from using implants that haven’t been tested or are subject to safety concerns.

But she recognizes that her hoped-for fixes won’t come easily. And even those are a small piece of larger systemic problems.

“When it comes to protecting the people who will suffer,” Koya said, “the system is absolutely in shambles.”

Contributors to this story: Ben Hallman, Jet Schouten, Dean Starkman, Simon Bowers, Emilia Díaz-Struck, Gerard Ryle, Sasha Chavkin, Spencer Woodman, Cat Ferguson, Petra Blum, Scilla Alecci, Sydney P. Freedberg, Fergus Shiel, Richard H. P. Sia, Tom Stites, Martha M. Hamilton, Joe Hillhouse, Rigoberto Carvajal, Cécile Schilis-Gallego, Hilary Fung, Marina Walker Guevara, Miguel Fiandor, Pierre Romera, Hamish Boland-Rudder, Will Fitzgibbon, Delphine Reuter, Amy Wilson-Chapman, Margot Williams, Pauliina Siniauer, Razzan Nakhlawi, Jesse McLean, Matthew Perrone, Holbrook Mohr, Mitch Weiss, Esther Oxford, Charles Babcock, Andrew Lehren, Leo Sisti and Emily Siegel.-------------------Search in the International Medical Devices Database





Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.-------------------American life expectancy drops for the second time, a trend not seen since early 1900s, CDC report shows





American life expectancy drops for the second time, a trend not seen since early 1900s, CDC report shows copied!

In 2017, the average American lifespan shorted due in large part to increasing fatal drug overdoses and deaths by suicide.

Read More-------------------Latest Ebola outbreak is now the worst, after West African epidemic





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Source: Associated Press By Associated Press

JOHANNESBURG — The World Health Organization says Congo’s deadly Ebola outbreak is now the second largest in history, behind the devastating West Africa outbreak that killed thousands a few years ago.

WHO emergencies chief Dr. Peter Salama late Thursday called it “a sad toll” as Congo’s health ministry announced the number of cases has reached 426. That includes 379 confirmed and 47 probable cases, with 242 deaths.

Attacks by rebel groups and open hostility by some wary locals have posed serious challenges that Ebola workers say they have never faced before. Many venture out on critical virus containment work only with the accompaniment of U.N. peacekeepers while gunfire echoes daily.

Salama predicted this month that the outbreak in northeastern Congo will last at least another six months before it can be contained.

The West Africa Ebola outbreak killed more than 11,000 people from 2014 to 2016. An outbreak in 2000 in Uganda sickened 425 people and killed 224 of them and it was, until now, the second-worst outbreak.

Day by day, reports by health organizations note one new difficulty after another for the Ebola outbreak in Congo, even as their work sets milestones that have given new hope in the fight against one of the world’s most notorious diseases.

More than 37,000 people have received Ebola vaccinations, and Congo has begun the first-ever trial to test the effectiveness and safety of four experimental Ebola drugs. And yet the risk of Ebola spreading in so-called “red zones” — areas that are virtually inaccessible because of the threat of rebel groups — is a major concern in containing this outbreak.

“This tragic milestone clearly demonstrates the complexity and severity of the outbreak. While the numbers are far from those from West Africa in 2014, we’re witnessing how the dynamics of conflict pose a different kind of threat,” said Michelle Gayer, senior director of emergency health at the International Rescue Committee.

The alarmingly high number of infected newborns in Congo is another concern, and so far a mystery. In a separate statement on Thursday, WHO said so far in this outbreak, 36 Ebola cases have been reported among newborn babies and children under 2.

This is the first time this turbulent part of northeastern Congo has had an Ebola outbreak. Congo’s health ministry has carried vivid accounts of residents, spurred by rumors, who have been trying to stop safe burial practices that halt the spread of Ebola from victims to relatives and friends.

On Thursday, the ministry said a group of youths broke into a morgue, stole the body of an Ebola victim and returned it to their family.-------------------How did Hoang Nguyen lose 40 pounds? She danced it off.





Get the Better newsletter.

By Stephanie Thurrott

Name: Hoang Nguyen

Age: 38

Residence: St. Paul, MN

Job: Ophthalmic medical technologist

Home Life: Single, though she thinks it’s time for her boyfriend of four years to pop the question

Peak Weight: 180 pounds

Current Weight: 140 pounds

Height: 5 feet 6 inches

Hoang Nguyen’s weight gain followed a path that might be familiar to a lot of people. As a child and teenager, she kept her weight at healthy levels. “After graduating from college and getting a 9-to-5 desk job, though, that’s when I ballooned,” she says.

Exercise had been nudged off her calendar — she had been active in her younger days but now she was tired after work. In her free time, she went out with friends instead of working out. Between her workplace cafeteria and meals in restaurants, she was tempted to turn to unhealthy foods.

AN UNEXPECTED CONNECTION MAKES THE DIFFERENCE

But in 2013 she was inspired to make a change. “I was working at the Mall of America and I ran into a friend of a friend. She was a Minnesota Vikings cheerleader, and talking to her got me thinking about my dance days,” Nguyen says. “After that I thought I should get back into dance.”

She had danced in musical theater as a child and studied jazz, ballet, and tap during college, but she hadn’t danced in almost 10 years. She joined a program where she could take unlimited classes to work on her technique and started taking four or five classes a week.

“The dance studio was so close to work, I just walked two and a half blocks to get there,” she says.

Dancing reminded her of other activities she had enjoyed when she was younger. Next up? Hockey. Nguyen had played hockey casually as a kid and enjoyed it, so she reached out to a women’s hockey association and got a spot on a recreational team. “Minnesota is such a hockey state — it’s so big here — and I wanted to do something fun,” she says.

She also started running, in part to spend time with her sister, who was a busy mom with three young children. Nguyen’s sister was in a running club called Moms on the Run. Even though Nguyen doesn’t have children, she started running so they could spend “sisterhood nights” together where they could hang out and stay healthy. “When I ran my first 5k nonstop, that was great,” she says.

While she enjoyed playing hockey and running, she discovered that dance was where she wanted to focus her energy. Most recently she danced at the performing arts festival Minnesota Fringe. And she joins Flash Mob America’s performances in her area. “I do flash mobs whenever I can,” she says.

She says she dropped about 25 pounds in the first three to four months after she started dancing, and the rest of the weight came off more slowly. “Now I am back to my high school weight,” she says.

EXERCISE LEADS TO BETTER FOOD CHOICES

Participating in all of these activities motivated Nguyen to start eating healthier. She scaled back on eating out and moved her diet toward smaller portions with more greens and veggies.

She also trimmed her dinnertime visits to her mom. “My mom cooks a lot of stir fry and fatty Asian food,” she says. “I love her, but every time I would go over, she would keep on feeding me.”

WHAT’S BEHIND HER WEIGHT LOSS SUCCESS?

Nguyen says camaraderie helped her stay committed to exercising. She ran with her sister, and she likes dancing with other people and the instructors in the classes.

And she’s quick to point out that while throwing herself into exercising worked for her, it’s not for everybody. “Everyone is different,” she says. “I took on all of these activities, but not everyone is able to do that. If you need to go slow, take it step by step.”

MORE WEIGHT-LOSS SUCCESS STORIES

Want more tips like these? NBC News BETTER is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. Sign up for our newsletter and follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.-------------------For nonbinary patients, seeking health care can be a painful task





By Tatyana Bellamy-Walker

When 19-year-old Kam Brooks was admitted to a behavioral health care facility in Sanford, Florida, after having suicidal thoughts, a nurse following her usual procedure asked the teen to remove personal items, including a bra.

“It’s a chest binder, not a bra,” Brooks, who identifies as neither male nor female but as gender nonbinary, responded before changing into a long-sleeve shirt and gray sweatpants.

Kam Brooks Courtesy Kam Brooks

During another interaction at the same facility, Aspire Health Partners, a nonprofit that caters to low-income patients, a counselor asked if Brooks was "male or female." This question, Brooks lamented, ignored the possibility that someone could identify as neither — or as somewhere in between.

“I went with the lesser of two evils and decided to portray myself as a man,” said Brooks, who had been struggling with gender dysphoria, a conflict between a person's gender assigned at birth and the gender with which they identify.

“I didn’t want to re-educate them on the correct terminology,” Brooks added. “I just wanted to get out of there.”

Brooks, who was assigned female at birth and and uses they/them pronouns, was eventually put on a list of female patients by the nursing staff and repeatedly referred to as a girl.

“General health care — physical or mental — I'm even more uncomfortable with due to the likelihood of being misgendered and experiencing miseducation as a patient,” said Brooks, who now relies on backlogged LGBTQ clinics for services.

Citing federal patient privacy laws, Todd Dixon, a spokesperson for Aspire Health Partners, said he could not comment on Brooks' claims.

'MISUNDERSTOOD, DISRESPECTED AND FRUSTRATED'

A recent study in the journal LGBT Health found Brooks' experience is not uncommon among nonbinary patients. The report, conducted by researchers at San Francisco State University and Columbia University, found nearly all nonbinary participants surveyed reported encountering health care providers who did not provide gender-affirming or inclusive care.

"Participants felt that providers — even those with training in transgender care — lack the knowledge, training and experience to provide them with the health care they need," the report's authors, James E. Lykens and Allen J. LeBlanc of SFSU and Walter O. Bockting of Columbia, concluded. Genderqueer and nonbinary "young adults in our study often felt misunderstood, disrespected and frustrated as they sought and received health care."

The study's findings did not come as a surprise to Dr. Alex Keuroghlian, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and director of the Fenway Institute's National LGBT Health Education Center. Keuroghlian said most doctors are not educated about nonbinary gender identities.

“Clinicians have not been trained across the board to know how to use correct names and nonbinary pronouns,” he said. “It’s a critical part of affirming the patient and having them remain engaged in care. Otherwise, people will not go back to see their clinician.”

A health care provider who is not educated about or supportive of the patient's gender identity can compound a nonbinary patient's trauma, Keuroghlian said.

“There is a chronic victimization that is unfortunately perpetuated in health care, which should be a refuge for everyone to access care,” Keuroghlian said. “When that doesn’t happen, there is re-traumatization and people continue to experience minority stress. This can be a source of anxiety and depression, which can lead to adverse health outcomes.”

NOT 'TRANS ENOUGH'

Mishi Killion, who is 26, gender-nonconforming and uses male pronouns, said he was told at a doctor's office that he was not "trans enough" for hormone replacement therapy.

“It ruined all the plans that I had,” said the Kentucky native, who spent months retrieving gender-affirmation documents for hormones and surgery. “It sent me into a deep depression and messed up my dysphoria that was under control.”

Killion, who presents as androgynous, said doctors urged him to consult more therapists to confirm a diagnosis of gender dysphoria.

“Now, I wonder every time I go to the doctor if they are going to say the same thing to me again,” added Killion, who said he sobbed in the exam room as doctors denied his eligibility for hormone treatment. “I already don’t like doctors in the first place, but it put a bad taste in my mouth and made me trust doctors even less.”

Violette Skye Courtesy Violette Skye

Violette Skye, 42, an activist in Salem, Oregon, who was born intersex and identifies as gender nonbinary, said doctors forced them to go on testosterone.

“Most doctors operate within the binary and only see people as either male or female,” said Skye, an advisory committee member for the Intersex and Genderqueer Recognition Project, a nonbinary advocacy group in Fremont, California. “My body rejected testosterone for the decades that I was on it.”

Elliot Butrie, 17, said a therapist three years ago laughed and said nonbinary gender identity did not exist, dismissing it as a phase. Butrie dropped the therapist.

“It hurts that people constantly question who you are," said Butrie, who lives in Michigan.

After that painful visit, Butrie wondered what it would be like to be a normal teenager. “If my therapist says I'm not real, maybe I’m not real,” Butrie recalled thinking at the time.

A 'GROWING SUBGROUP'

Individuals who identify as nonbinary or genderqueer (another term used to describe those who identify as neither exclusively male nor female) are a "substantial and growing subgroup of the gender nonconforming community," according to Lykens, LeBlanc and Bockting.

In a 2017 survey published by the LGBTQ media advocacy group GLAAD, 12 percent of respondents between 18 and 34 identified with a gender identity other than the one they were assigned at birth. Three percent of those surveyed identified as "agender"; 3 percent as "gender fluid"; 2 percent as "transgender"; 2 percent as "unsure/questioning"; 1 percent as "bigender"; and 1 percent as "genderqueer." While the specific term "nonbinary" was not one of the options, a number of the other terms would fall under the nonbinary umbrella.

Several states across the country are now recognizing gender identities other than male and female on government IDs. New York City last month became the fifth place in the U.S. to offer nonbinary (also called gender-neutral or third gender) birth certificates, following California, Oregon, Washington state and New Jersey. Three states and Washington, D.C., allow nonbinary driver licenses.

A number of health care professionals, researchers and nonbinary patients say the medical community must make changes to address this growing group as well.

In their report, Lykens, LeBlanc and Bockting recommended that health forms "be inclusive and affirmative of a range of gender identities and expressions"; that providers receive more training in order to "establish a higher level of gender literacy and competence" to better serve nonbinary patients; and that providers "avoid assumptions" about patients' gender identity and "ask open-ended questions" to "encourage them to relate their unique experiences of identity and health."

Keuroghlian, who two years ago started a program at Harvard Medical School to teach doctors-in-training about caring for transgender and nonbinary patients, recently launched a guide specifically aimed at helping doctors communicate with nonbinary patients.

"Best practices for all health care staff include avoiding assumptions about patients’ gender identities, asking for information about name and pronouns in order to adopt these consistently throughout the clinical setting, and describing anatomy and related terms with gender-inclusive language," Keuroghlian and his co-authors wrote in the guide's conclusion.

Brooks said they hope doctors and other health care providers can foster a safe space for nonbinary patients.

“People should have something that is reliable, not something that will make them feel worse,” Brooks said.

FOLLOW NBC OUT ON TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM-------------------Under Trump, number of uninsured kids rose for first time this decade





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Source: Kaiser Health News

After years of steady decline, the number of U.S. children without health insurance rose by 276,000 in 2017, according to a Georgetown University report released Thursday.

While not a big jump statistically — the share of uninsured kids rose to 5 percent in 2017 from 4.7 percent a year earlier — it is still striking. The uninsured rate typically remains stable or drops during times of economic growth. In September, the U.S. unemployment rate hit its lowest level since 1969.

“The nation is going backwards on insuring kids and it is likely to get worse,” said Joan Alker, co-author of the study and executive director of Georgetown’s Center for Children and Families.

Alker and other child health advocates place the blame for this change on the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress, saying their policies and actions cast a pall on enrollment.

The number of children without coverage rose to 3.9 million in 2017 from about 3.6 million a year earlier, according to Census data analyzed by Georgetown.

The overall uninsured rate for people of all ages — which plummeted from 2013 to 2016 following the health law’s implementation — remained unchanged at 8.8 percent last year.

The share of children with employer-sponsored coverage rose modestly in 2017, but not by enough to make up for the drop in children enrolling in Medicaid or getting coverage from Obamacare insurance exchanges, Alker said.

While no states made any significant gains in lowering children’s uninsured rate, nine states experienced significant increases. The biggest occurred in South Dakota (up from 4.7 percent to 6.2 percent), Utah (up from 6 percent to 7.3 percent) and Texas (from 9.8 percent to 10.7 percent).

More than 1 in 5 uninsured children nationwide live in Texas — about 835,000 kids — by far the highest number of any state.

Florida had 325,000 uninsured children last year, as its uninsured rate for that age group rose 0.7 percentage points to 7.3 percent. California had 301,000 children without insurance, though its number remained virtually unchanged, relative to the previous year.

Other states with significant increases were Georgia, South Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee and Massachusetts.

The uninsured rates for children increased at nearly triple the rates in states that did not expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, according to the report. Studies have shown that children whose parents are insured are more likely to have coverage.

The uninsured rate among Hispanic children was 7.8 percent, compared with 4.9 percent among whites and 4.6 percent among blacks overall. (Hispanics can be of any race.)

Georgetown has been tracking these figures since 2008 when 7.6 million children — or about 10 percent of kids — lacked health coverage.

Because nearly all low-income children are eligible for Medicaid or the federal Children’s Health Insurance Program, known as CHIP, the challenge is making sure parents are aware of the programs, getting them enrolled and keeping them signed up as long as they are eligible, Alker said.

Congress let the CHIP program funding lapse for several months in 2017, putting states in a position of having to warn consumers that they would soon have to freeze enrollment. Congress restored federal funding in early in 2018.

“The nation is going backwards on insuring kids and it is likely to get worse.”

In addition, low-income families were bombarded by news reports last year of Congress threatening to repeal the health law that expanded coverage to millions. In the past two years, the Trump administration has slashed funding to Obamacare navigators to help people sign up for coverage.

Alker also pointed to the Trump administration’s September proposal, known as the “public charge” rule, which could make it harder for legal immigrants to get green cards if they have received certain kinds of public assistance — including Medicaid, food stamps and housing subsidies. Green cards allow them to live and work permanently in the United States.

OLE Health, a large health provider based in Napa Valley, Calif., that serves many immigrants, said it has seen patients disenroll from Medicaid in the past year. CEO Alicia Hardy said many have dropped coverage over fears the help could jeopardize their immigration status.

“They are afraid of being deported,” she said.

All those events could have deterred families from getting their kids covered. “The welcome mat has been pulled back and as a result we see more uninsured children,” Alker said.

She said the easiest way to change the trend would be for more states to expand Medicaid under the health law. Fourteen states have yet to do so. Though the expansion largely affects adults, as parents enroll, their children are likely to follow.

KHN’s coverage of children’s health care issues is supported in part by the Heising-Simons Foundation.

Kaiser Health News (KHN) is a national health policy news service. It is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation which is not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.-------------------China orders halt to gene-editing after scientist's claims





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Reuters

SHANGHAI — The Chinese government on Thursday ordered a temporary halt to research activities for people involve in the editing human genes, after a Chinese scientist said he had edited the genes of twin babies.

Scientist He Jiankui said this week that he used a gene-editing technology known as CRISPR-Cas9 to alter the embryonic genes of the twin girls born this month.

He's announcement, which has not been verified, sparked an international outcry about the ethics and safety of such research.

"The nature of this incident is extremely nasty, and relevant bodies have been ordered to temporarily halt the scientific research activities of relevant personnel," the state news agency Xinhua said, citing the health ministry, science and technology ministry and China Association for Science and Technology.

The organizers of a conference where He claimed to have edited the genes also condemned the work on Thursday, calling it "deeply disturbing" and "irresponsible."

"Even if the modifications are verified, the procedure was irresponsible and failed to conform with international norms," the organizing committee of the Second International Summit on Human Genome Editing, being held in Hong Kong this week, said in a statement.

The committee called for an independent assessment of He's claims.

He said gene editing would help protect the girls from infection with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

Chinese scientists have also condemned the work and the Southern University of Science and Technology, where He is on leave from his position as an associate professor, has announced an investigation.

The Guangdong province Health Commission said on its website on Wednesday it and Shenzhen city had set up a team to investigate the case.

He's filing to a Chinese clinical trials database indicates that a hospital did an ethical review of the project, but the hospital involved denied that its ethics review committee ever met to discuss the work.

He said after his presentation on Wednesday he was proud of what he had done.

The presidents of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (NAS) and the U.S. National Academy of Medicine (NAM) also expressed concern about He's work.

"The events in Hong Kong this week clearly demonstrate the need for us to develop more specific standards and principles that can be agreed upon by the international scientific community," NAS president Marcia McNutt and NAM president Victor Dzau said in a statement.-------------------Cohen cooperation is proof of Russian 'leverage' over Trump, incoming House Judiciary chairman says





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Ben Kamisar

WASHINGTON — New York Democrat Jerry Nadler, the incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said Sunday that new revelations from one of President Trump’s allies amount to proof that Russia had "leverage" over Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign.

In an exclusive interview on "Meet the Press," Nadler said that former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen’s admissions last week related to his role in securing a Trump Tower in Moscow during the time of the GOP presidential primary raise the specter of a compromised presidential candidate, and now president, that should trouble the American people.

"The fact that he was lying to the American people about doing business in Russia and the Kremlin knew he was lying gave the Kremlin a hold over him," Nadler said.

"One question we have now is, does the Kremlin still have a hold over him because of other lies that they know about?"

Nadler’s comments come days after Cohen pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about his role in the Trump Organization’s business dealings with Russia around the time of the presidential campaign. As part of the plea deal, he promised to cooperate with special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether Trump’s campaign or allies colluded with Russians during the election.

The president's former lawyer told the court he erred when he said the project was scuttled in January of 2016, since he continued work on the project until June 2016. And he said he lied when he told Congress he never traveled to Russia in connection to the project and when he said he had never spoken to a Russian official about it.

The revelations are the latest warning sign for Trump about the special counsel's investigation into any possible collusion between his presidential campaign in Russia. Also this week, NBC News reported on court documents that show a former Trump adviser received an email from an ally referencing a possible document dump shortly before WikiLeaks began to release leaked emails form Democrats.

Trump, who had previously claimed he has "nothing to do with Russia," told reporters on Thursday that Cohen is lying so prosecutors are lenient when sentencing him. And he downplayed the prospect of his company negotiating a possible Russian tower during his presidential bid by arguing that it was "a project that everybody knew about."

During the Sunday interview, Nadler argued that the business connections could help explain why Trump has spoken so highly of Russian President Vladimir Putin, dating back to his presidential campaign. And he warned the president that a Democratic Congress will step up congressional oversight come January.

"We have a president who lies incessantly to the American people about big matters and small matters, who surrounds himself with people who lie incessantly to the American people. The key fact now is that the time that he can get away with lying to the American people all the time and evading accountability is coming to an end," he said.

Wyoming Republican Sen. John Barrasso, the newly-minted No. 3 Republican in the Senate, downplayed Cohen's guilty plea in a "Meet the Press" interview Sunday.

"The president is an international businessman, I’m not surprised he was doing international business. Cohen is in trouble for lying to Congress, not anything related to the campaign or Russian influence," Barrasso said.

When asked whether he’s concerned that the Republican primary electorate didn’t know about the negotiations with Russia when they chose Trump to be the party’s nominee, Barrasso said that Trump has delivered on his electoral promise to Americans.

"People were thinking it was time for a change, they didn’t want Hillary Clinton, they wanted a new opportunity and they’ve gotten it in terms of a strong and healthy and growing economy," he said, before arguing that the Mueller probe should end so the American people can "see what’s in it."

Barrasso brushed aside calls to pass legislation to protect Mueller from a possible indiscriminate firing by Trump, while criticizing some murmurs among Democrats that the government shouldn’t be funded without that assurance.

"They’ve been crying wolf for two years that Mueller was going to be fired. Didn’t happen, not going to happen," he said, adding that suggestions about holding up government funding over the issue is the "wrong way to go."-------------------As a moderate Republican and internationalist, George H.W. Bush was last of a kind





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Jonathan Allen

George H.W. Bush was the last of his kind.

Pulitzer Prize-winning author Jon Meacham, who wrote a biography of the 41st president, calls him "the last gentleman." He was the last American president to start a war, fight it and win it. And, most important in the sweep of American political history, he was the last president who embraced and embodied a moderate brand of Republicanism that was in decline before he took office and has all but disappeared since.

Bush straddled the divide between the movement conservatives of President Ronald Reagan and the old liberal, northeastern wing of the GOP led by figures such as former Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, landing a spot on Reagan's ticket in 1980 after a bitter primary fight. That launched him on the path to the presidency, which he would win in 1988 despite the misgivings of some grassroots conservatives.

From the Oval Office, Bush presided over the fall of the Berlin Wall, the swift defeat of Iraqi forces that had invaded Kuwait, the enactment of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the extension of the Civil Rights Act, the expansion of environmental regulations and a 1990 budget deal that both set the country on a path to fiscal stability while it permanently turned his right flank against him because the law included tax increases.

"He liked to legislate," said Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, who served as director of legislative affairs in the Bush White House.

But Bush's internationalist approach to foreign policy — a function in part of his experience as a Navy bomber pilot in World War II, a U.S. representative to the United Nations, an envoy to China and a director of the Central Intelligence Agency — was his greatest legacy, according to presidential historians.

"He should be given credit for how he performed in the presidency, that leadership role of internationalism, multilateralism, free trade, international law, international associations," said Barbara A. Perry, presidential studies director at the University of Virginia's Miller Center. "That was such a successful model for fighting the Cold War, ending the Cold War and going into the 1990s and the 2000s."

New England roots, Texas growth

Rising in an era of self-made Republicans like Reagan and President Richard Nixon, Bush's politics were the product of two very different environments: the New England of his youth, where he grew up the son of investment banker and future Sen. Prescott Bush of Connecticut and played first base for the Yale baseball team, and Texas, where he took his growing family in search of oil riches.

Like his father and several other relatives, Bush went to Yale University, where he played first base for the college's team and took part in the first two College World Series. AP file

He won election to the House in 1966, and, in a show of the favor he would continue to cultivate in Republican circles, wangled a rare freshman assignment to the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. Bush's landmark legislation was the creation of Title X, which provides federal funding for family planning programs, a push that earned him the derisive nickname "rubbers" from his colleagues and marked him as a social moderate at a time when the party was in the early stages of a hard right turn on cultural issues.

After losing a 1970 Senate race against Lloyd Bentsen — who portrayed him as too liberal and a Nixon stooge — Bush's loyalty to the party was rewarded when Nixon appointed him to the U.N. post. He would leave that job for the chairmanship of the Republican National Committee, where he was charged with leading the party during, and in the immediate aftermath of, the Watergate scandal. He leaned on Nixon to resign for what he said was the good of both the party and the country.

And then Bush went to China to represent the U.S. as President Gerald Ford's top diplomat there. His title, chief of the U.S. liaison office to the People's Republic of China — rather than ambassador — suggests just how new and delicate the relationship between the two powers was at the time.

Reagan's No. 2

Surely, no one in either party had a resume to match Bush's when he won Iowa, the first contest in the 1980 GOP primaries. But eventually he succumbed to Reagan, who had nearly thwarted Ford's renomination bid in 1976. Reagan didn't want Bush — who had called his supply-side theories "voodoo economics" — but he needed balance on his ticket to unify his conservative populist wing of the party with the party establishment.

Reagan first homed in on Ford as his running mate, but decided he couldn't manage the presidency with an ex-president who demanded near-parity. Ultimately, Reagan turned to Bush as a backup choice for the second slot on the ticket.

Ronald Reagan (left) and George H.W. Bush stand on the podium in Detroit as the final curtain draws near on the July 1980 Republican National Convention. AP file

Bush was "a little bit of a strange bedfellow in the Reagan administration" because he didn't fit in with the hard-edged conservatism of the Reagan revolutionaries, Perry said. Like many vice presidents, he was relegated to the role of representing the president at official functions, including funerals for important figures.

"They die, we fly," Bush and his aides joked about his job.

But Bush also demonstrated a knack for making a political moment. In 1984, speaking about his debate the previous night with Geraldine Ferraro, the first woman nominated for vice president by a major political party, Bush said "we tried to kick a little ass."

While the left was outraged at what was perceived as a sexist remark, Bush was also signaling that he was the tougher candidate for the job he held.

'Selfless patriotism'

Bush easily defeated Sen. Bob Dole and evangelical leader Pat Robertson for the GOP nomination in 1988, but a tepid endorsement from Reagan underscored the discomfort of movement conservatives, who felt that he would swing the political pendulum away from them and back toward moderates.

He ran a sharp-elbowed general election campaign against Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis, the Massachusetts governor, that seized on a state prison furlough program and an inmate named "Willie" Horton. Horton, who is black, raped a white woman while out on furlough, and became a theme of Bush's speeches and the subject of an ad run on behalf of Bush that was criticized for fear-mongering and race-baiting.

Bush would go on to win the election with a whopping 426 electoral votes, nearly four times Dukakis' 111.

Just two years later, he would give conservatives reason to believe that their worst fears about his political instincts had come true.

After a briefing from Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady about mounting budget deficits and their potential effect on the economy, Bush determined that the country's fiscal books had to be brought into better order.

"The president was convinced that if something wasn’t done, it would come back to hurt middle class families and the economy," said Portman, who was in the room for the session.

For months, Bush negotiated with congressional leaders from both parties and eventually decided to renege on his campaign pledge of "no new taxes" in the interest of cutting a deal with Democrats that also curtailed spending. Many analysts say that was the beginning of the end of his re-election effort, as conservatives abandoned him in a three-way 1992 race against Democrat Bill Clinton and Reform Party candidate Ross Perot.

Anita McBride, executive-in-residence at American University's Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies and an aide to Reagan and both presidents Bush, said George H.W. Bush exhibited a "selfless patriotism" in both international and domestic politics — as evidenced by his decision to break such a major campaign promise.

"He had the courage to do something he knew would lose him an election, the way Lyndon Johnson did with the Civil Rights Act," McBride said. "This had to be done for the country, when faced with all the realities of where the economy was and was headed. ... So, he didn't kick the can down the road."

Despite his break with his party's base, Bush's defeat was particularly stunning because his approval rating had risen to nearly 90 percent at the end of the Gulf War in early 1991.-------------------George H.W. Bush dies at 94





George H.W. Bush

Read and watch the latest news and analysis about the legacy of former President George H.W. Bush, who died Friday at 94.-------------------For George H.W. Bush, a funeral befitting a war hero





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Alex Johnson

When former President George H.W. Bush is laid to rest Thursday afternoon at his presidential library in College Station, Texas, the ceremony will mark the end of a long-established ritual planned, with literally military precision, down to the second.

His family had a large role in planning the funeral for Bush, who died Friday at age 94. But it is the Military District of Washington, part of Joint Task Force-National Capital Region, that is responsible for staging the ceremonies — anti-royalist America's answer to royal pomp and circumstance.

And make no mistake: It is a military operation, befitting a war hero who gave his service revolver to a Navy lieutenant aboard the submarine that rescued him after his plane was shot down over the Pacific Ocean during World War II. It involves military units coordinating split-second movements in at least three states and the District of Columbia, not to mention the Air Force's flagship jet, Air Force One, which will fly Bush's body from Houston to Joint Base Andrews in Maryland on Monday morning.

The presidential plane, temporarily renamed Special Air Mission 41 in honor of the 41st president of the United States, will return the former president to Texas on Wednesday after he has lain in state in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol.

Traditionally, a former president's body is transported from Joint Base Andrews to the Capitol in a flag-draped, four-wheeled caisson that was built in 1918 to carry a 75-mm cannon. It is escorted by three military march units and personnel from all five military academies, coordinated by the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment — the Old Guard — based at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, Virginia.

The procession is timed to advance at exactly 3 mph and 100 steps per minute.

Bush's body will remain at the Capitol until Wednesday morning, when it will be taken to Washington National Cathedral for only the 34th state funeral in the nation's capital in American history, according to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol. It follows the services for Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., by barely three months.

(Ceremonies for former President Richard Nixon in his hometown, Yorba Linda, California, in 1994 were also accorded state funeral status.)

It takes 133 pages to lay out all the procedures in an Army manual titled "State, Official and Special Military Funerals." The joint military task force said as many as 4,000 military and Defense Department civilian personnel would be involved in some ceremonial, security or logistical capacity.

Bush, himself, gave the Military District of Washington a 211-page document detailing what he wanted. He requested that a "missing man" formation flyover of fighter jets and that the presidential fanfare, "Hail to the Chief," not be performed at his burial.

Mourners at the Washington services will be led by President Donald Trump and Melania Trump, the first lady. Bush's family, including his son George W. Bush, the 43rd president, and former first lady Laura Bush will be prominent. Former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will be there, along with former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama, who canceled two European appearances this week to attend.

Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn Carter, won't be at the services. The Carter Center said that the former president, who is 94, will be on a private overseas trip and that the former first lady, who is 91, is unable to travel after having undergone intestinal surgery.

Sully, the 2-year-old Labrador retriever that was assigned to Bush — who used a wheelchair in the last years of his life — by America's VetDogs, which places service dogs with veterans with disabilities, was with Bush's body in Houston on Sunday night. Bush's spokesman, Jim McGrath, tweeted a photo of Sully in front of the former president's casket.

The charity said that after he spends a short vacation at headquarters in Smithtown, New York, Sully will join the dog program at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, assisting wounded soldiers and active-duty personnel.

There will, however, be one man with the former president at every step until he is laid to rest on Wednesday: Army Maj. Gen. Michael L. Howard, commanding general of Joint Force Headquarters-National Capital Region.

"This state funeral is a culmination of years of planning and rehearsal to ensure the support the military renders President Bush is nothing less than a first-class tribute," Howard said in a statement.

Below is the full public schedule for former President George H.W. Bush's state funeral and related services:

Monday

10:30 a.m. CT: Departure Ceremony, Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base, Houston

3:30 p.m. ET: Arrival Ceremony, Joint Base Andrews, Maryland

4:45 p.m. ET: Arrival Ceremony, U.S. Capitol

5 p.m. ET: Lie in state, U.S. Capitol

Wednesday

10 a.m. ET: Departure ceremony, U.S. Capitol

11 a.m. ET: Arrival and funeral, Washington National Cathedral

12:30 p.m. ET: Departure ceremony, Washington National Cathedral

1:15 p.m. ET: Departure ceremony, Joint Base Andrews

4:30 p.m. CT: Arrival ceremony, Ellington Field

5:45 p.m. CT: Arrival ceremony, St. Martin's Episcopal Church, Houston

6:45 p.m. CT: Lie in repose, St. Martin's Episcopal Church

Thursday

10 a.m. CT: Funeral service, St. Martin's Episcopal Church

11:15 a.m. CT: Departure ceremony, St. Martin's Episcopal Church

12:30 p.m. CT: Departure ceremony, Union Pacific Railroad Westfield Auto Facility, Spring, Texas

3:45 p.m. CT: Arrival ceremony, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas

4:15 p.m. CT: Arrival and interment, George Bush Presidential Library & Museum, Texas A&M University-------------------Trump and Xi strike a temporary trade war truce at G-20 summit





Trump and Xi strike a temporary trade war truce at G-20 summit copied!

Under the agreement, the U.S. won’t raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods at the start of the new year and China agreed to buy more U.S. goods, the White House says. China also agreed to consider the opioid fentanyl as a controlled substance.

Read More-------------------The unlikely friendship between George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton





The unlikely friendship between George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton copied!

The former rivals and former presidents overcame their political differences to strike up a close friendship, something Clinton called “one of the greatest joys of [his] life.”

Read More-------------------Former President George H.W. Bush remembered with tributes across the U.S.





Former President George H.W. Bush remembered with tributes across the U.S. copied!

There are growing memorials to the 41st president in Texas and near the family compound in Maine, as friends, family and colleagues honor his life and legacy.

Read More-------------------Top Democrats raise alarms about Trump's project in Russia that he called 'very legal & very cool'





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Allan Smith

Top Democrats raised alarms about President Donald Trump's real estate dealings in Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign which he has characterized as "very legal & very cool."

Whether Trump's efforts toward inking the deal for a Trump Tower in Moscow was legal has yet to be determined, one key Democrat said, adding that it "certainly wasn't very cool." And another leading Democratic representative said the president's failure to disclose the business dealings gave Russia "leverage" over him.

Both Democrats and Republicans were asked during Sunday's slate of political talk shows about the president's former lawyer, Michael Cohen, pleading guilty on Thursday to a single count of making false statements to Congress about a project to build a Trump Tower in Moscow.

In a charging document, special counsel Robert Mueller said Cohen lied to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in order to stick to the president's Russia narrative, minimizing links between the president and the Moscow project and giving the false impression that it ended before the Iowa caucuses in February 2016 when instead the attempt to lock down a deal continued until at least that summer.

Trump responded by calling his ex-attorney a "weak person" who was "lying about a project that everybody knew about" in order to get a reduced sentence.

"I was running my business while I was campaigning," Trump told reporters Thursday. "There was a good chance that I wouldn’t have won, in which case I would have gone back into the business and why should I lose lots of opportunities?"

In a widely circulated tweet from Friday, the president added that his efforts to build a Russian building were "very legal & very cool."

Speaking with ABC's "This Week" on Sunday, Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff of California, likely the incoming chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, responded to that tweet and Cohen's plea deal.

"Well whether it was legal or not remains to be seen," he said. "It certainly wasn’t very cool. More than that, it was very compromising of our country. In order for this Trump Tower deal to go through, sanctions had to be lifted on a Russian state bank."

Schiff said there was "no way to describe that as cool or ethical or in the national interest."

"It means that the president, whether he won or lost, was hoping to make money from Russia, was seeking at the same time to enlist the support of the Kremlin to make that money," he said, adding that the efforts were "so deeply compromising."

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Democratic Rep. Jerrold Nadler of New York, likely the incoming House Judiciary Chairman, criticized Trump for "lying to the American people about doing business in Russia," adding, that "the Kremlin knew he was lying gave the Kremlin a hold over him."

"And one question we have now is, 'Does the Kremlin still have hold over him, because of other lies that they know about?" Nadler said, adding, "There certainly was leverage during that, during the campaign period and until recently. Because they knew that he was lying."

Republicans pushed back on those assessments Sunday. Countering Nadler's points on "Meet the Press," Republican Sen. John Barrasso of Wyoming said it wasn't surprising the president was "doing international business" during the campaign.

Meanwhile, former Republican Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina said on "Meet the Press" that it's "not against the law" for Americans to do business in Russia. He called the allegation that Russia held leverage over Trump "a theory."

And on "This Week," former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican who worked closely with Trump during the campaign, brushed off the Cohen plea deal.

"It's a smoking gun of the fact that people lied in politics," he said. "You know, next thing we’re going to talk about is the smoking gun about the sun coming up."

Trump had insisted he did not have financial interests in Russia. In July 2016, then-candidate Trump said, "I will tell you, right now, zero, I have nothing to do with Russia, yes?"

Cohen's plea agreement indicated that he is cooperating with Mueller's office. Cohen, who was a vice president of the Trump Organization when he left the president's namesake business in May, first formally offered information to Mueller in early August and went on to speak with the special counsel's office six additional times.

In August, Cohen pleaded guilty in federal court to eight felony counts, two of which were related to hush-money payments Cohen said were made to women at the then-candidate's direction during the 2016 campaign to keep them from discussing affairs they said they had with Trump.

Cohen said in court at the time that those payments were made for the "principal purpose of influencing" the outcome of the election.-------------------Trump says he will likely meet with North Korea's Kim in early 2019





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Hallie Jackson and Saphora Smith

ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE — President Donald Trump has said he will likely hold a second summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un early in the New Year and that three locations were being considered.

The president — who was returning from the G-20 summit in Argentina — told reporters aboard Air Force One that a second summit may happen in “January or February.”

“We have actually talked about three sites, we haven’t determined the sites,” he said.

Trump said he had a “good relationship” with the North Korean leader and stressed that the negotiations to denuclearize the Korean peninsula had only been going on six to seven months. “Not a long time,” he said.

Trump and Kim met for the first time in June in Singapore, where they issued a vague statement on a nuclear-free peninsula without describing how and when it would occur.

Since the initial agreement for denuclearization, the United States has pressed the North Koreans to provide information on the entirety of its nuclear operations.

The Kim regime has refused to provide the details of the country’s operations and postponed scheduled meetings with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in New York City last month.

On Nov. 15, Vice President Mike Pence told NBC News that the U.S. will not require North Korea to provide a complete list of nuclear weapons and missile sites before the two leaders meet for a second time.

Instead, the second Trump-Kim meeting will be where a "verifiable plan" to disclose the sites and weapons must be reached, Pence said.

Hallie Jackson reported from aboard Air Force One, Saphora Smith reported from London.-------------------James Baker: Bush will be 'well remembered' and 'well treated' by history





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Ben Kamisar

WASHINGTON — Former Vice President Dick Cheney and former Secretary of State James Baker, two of the late President George H.W. Bush's closest political allies, paid tribute to their friend on "Meet the Press" Sunday.

Bush, who presided over the nation during the end of the Cold War as America's 41st president, died on Friday at the age of 94.

"He kept his sense of humor and his spirit until the very end. What a beautiful, wonderful human being he was," said Baker, who visited Bush's bedside in his final hours.

"He will be well remembered by history, and well treated by history."

"I think that, no doubt, he will be remembered as our most-successful one-term president and, perhaps, one of the most successful presidents of all time," Baker said.

The patriarch of one of America's political dynasties, the elder Bush held a variety of positions at the top of government even before winning the presidency in 1988. He spent eight years as President Ronald Reagan's vice president, previously leading the CIA and the Republican National Committee. He also served a stint in the House of Representatives, representing his adopted home of Texas, as well as America's ambassador to the United Nations and China.

A World War II veteran, Bush's term in office was defined in no small part by his role in modern foreign policy.

He presided over the United States at the end of the Cold War, which brought an end to the tensions that dominated the second half of the Twentieth Century and reorganized modern Europe. He ordered troops into Panama to help depose dictator Manuel Noriega and into Iraq for the first Gulf War after dictator Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. And his administration struck the landmark North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.

It was his role at the end of the Cold War that earned him praise from the country and the international community.

"His presidency, while it was only four years, was extraordinarily consequential," Baler said. "If you look at what happened in the world and the way he managed that — the way he managed the end of the Cold War so that it ended with a whimper, not with a bang, was really incredible."

New York Democratic Rep. Jerry Nadler agreed, telling "Meet the Press," that the falls of most empires usually come with "wars and cataclysms," and said that "a major share of that credit" for avoiding international calamity with the collapse of the Soviet Union "goes to George Bush."

Cheney, who served as Bush's Defense Secretary before later returning to government as President George W. Bush's vice president, recalled his former boss as a "remarkable man," noting how he gave him and the soliders under his command unmatched support.

Cheney went on to call his time working for Bush a "highlight of my career."-------------------President Trump, first lady Melania Trump to attend Bush funeral





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Jonathan Allen

BUENOS AIRES — President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump will attend a funeral service for the late President George H.W. Bush at Washington’s National Cathedral, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Saturday.

While the Trump and Bush families have had their differences — the former president’s son Jeb was one of the candidates dispatched by Trump in the 2016 Republican presidential primary — the death of the Bush family patriarch brought kind words from Trump, who in a late-night statement called him a “truly wonderful man.”

President Trump himself tweeted Saturday that he would not hold a previously-planned press conference until after the funeral out of respect for the late president and his family.

Sanders said the Trump administration is working to arrange a state funeral for Bush and that the president will declare Dec. 5 a national day of mourning in his honor.

Later Saturday, before his meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the G-20 summit here, Trump said he had spoken by phone with Jeb Bush and former President George W. Bush, another of the deceased president's sons.

"I expressed deepest sympathies," Trump told reporters. "He led a full life and a very exemplary life."

He did not attend a funeral for former first lady Barbara Bush earlier this year.-------------------Tributes to George H.W. Bush pour in following former president's death





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Dennis Romero

American and foreign luminaries expressed respect and gratitude for former President George H.W. Bush, who died Friday at age 94.

In tweets and statements, they expressed respect for his public service, love of country and basic decency.

President Trump and first lady Melania Trump said he "set the stage for the decades of prosperity that have followed."

"With sound judgement, common sense and unflappable leadership, guided our Nation, and the world, to a peaceful and victorious conclusion of the Cold War," the Trumps said in a statement Friday night.

On Saturday, Trump again praised the former president's "long, successful and beautiful life."

Former President Bill Clinton, who defeated Bush in the 1992 presidential election, described his predecessor's record of service as unmatched and added that he was "grateful for the friendship we formed."

"He never stopped serving. I saw it up close, working with him on tsunami relief in Asia and here at home after Hurricane Katrina. His remarkable leadership and great heart were always on full display," Clinton said in a statement. "I am profoundly grateful for every minute I spent with President Bush and will always hold our friendship as one of my life’s greatest gifts."

Hillary Clinton also expressed condolences to the Bush family. "In my experiences w/ him, I always valued his desire to listen, look at evidence & ask for ideas, even from people w/ different beliefs," she wrote on Twitter.

Former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama said, "While our hearts are heavy today, they are also filled with gratitude."

"Not merely for the years he spent as our forty-first President, but for the more than 70 years he spent in devoted service to the country he loved — from a decorated Naval aviator who nearly gave his life in World War II, to Commander-in-Chief of our Armed Forces, with plenty of posts along the way," the Obamas said in a statement. "George H.W. Bush’s life is a testament to the notion that public service is a noble, joyous calling."

Bush's grandson, George P. Bush, tweeted, "My grandfather was the greatest man I ever knew. His life spanned the American Century — he fought in World War II ... took part in the Texas oil boom ... served out a distinguished career in public service including serving as president during the final days of the Cold War."

James A. Baker III, who served as Chief of Staff and Secretary of State under Bush and who the former president counted among his closest friends, said his "will be forever etched in the history of America and the world."

"It is a lifelong record of selfless patriotic service to our nation," he said. "He led with strength, integrity, compassion and humility — characteristics that define a truly great man."

Fred Ryan, chairman of the board of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Institute, called the leadership of former President Reagan and Bush, who served as his vice president, "a remarkable partnership."

"As they reignited the U.S. economy, battled tyranny across the globe and restored America’s pride and purpose, President Reagan relied on his vice president’s calm, strength, loyalty and wisdom," Ryan said. "In all that the administration achieved, President Reagan once remarked, 'no one has been closer to my side and has contributed more to our success than George Bush.'"

Bush's vice president, Dan Quayle, said he always looked up to his former boss.

"I have often told my children, 'If you want a role model in your life — look to President George Herbert Walker Bush,'" he said in a statement. "The world mourns the loss of a great American. But, it also celebrates a life well lived."

The nonprofit founded by Bush, Points of Light, tweeted that he was "a kind, compassionate and humble man; a leader who believed in service for the betterment of society."

Senior Democrats, such as former Vice President Al Gore and Beto O'Rourke, a Texas congressman who lost to Republican Sen. Ted Cruz in November, also paid tribute.

Bush "served our nation with extraordinary integrity and grace," Gore said in a statement. "He earned bipartisan respect for speaking up and taking action for what he believed was right, even when doing so was unpopular."

Gore was vice president to Clinton, who defeated incumbent Bush in 1992.

O'Rourke said the former president would be "long remembered for his leadership, he decency and his essential kindness."

Condolences also came from the international community. The United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres acknowledged the former president's service to the organization that began with his appointment as the U.S.'s permanent representative in 1971.

"Across the years I was consistently impressed by his compassion, instinct for moderation and commitment to public service," Guterres said, also point to his more recent contributions during the South Asia earthquake disaster in 2005.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said, "He will be remembered as one of the architects of the post-Cold War era."

Stoltenberg went on to say that Bush was "a true trans-Atlantist" as a proponent for the relationship between the U.S. and its European allies.

Russian President Vladimir Putin praised Bush's "political wisdom and foresight" along with his ability to "make informed decisions even in the most difficult situations."

"Aware of the significance of the constructive dialogue between the two major nuclear powers, George Bush Sr. did much to strengthen Russian-American cooperation on international security issues," Putin said in a statement.

Kuwait's ruler Sheikh Jaber al-Mubarak al-Sabah said Bush's leadership in the first Gulf War was "pivotal" in forming an international coalition that liberated Iraqi forces, he said in a statement.

The 1991 Gulf War saw U.S.-led forces expel occupying Iraqi troops of dictator Saddam Hussein from Kuwait, earning Bush admiration and respect from many in the Gulf kingdom.

In Britain, where many place great value on the "special relationship" with the U.S., Prime Minister Theresa May praised Bush's "ethos of public service."

"At each stage of his remarkable career, the president worked side by side with his friends, colleagues and counterparts in the United Kingdom," she added in a statement. "Today Britain remembers a great statesman and a true friend of our country."

Bush was also lauded by senior figures outside the world of politics.

Apple CEO Tim Cook said on Twitter that Bush was dedicated to the American people.

CORRECTION (Nov. 30, 1:45 p.m. ET): An earlier version of this article misstated the year George H.W. Bush lost the presidential election to Bill Clinton. It was 1992, not 1994.-------------------President George H.W. Bush's last words to his son were: 'I love you, too'





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Peter Alexander and Phil Helsel

In the last words before his death, President George H.W. Bush told his son, former President George W. Bush, "I love you."

The 41st president, who died late Friday, was on speakerphone with his son to say goodbye Friday night before his death. The last words were first reported by the New York Times.

George W. Bush told his father that he had been a "wonderful dad" and that he loved him, and George H.W. Bush replied "I love you, too."

George H.W. Bush, 94, had a disease similar to Parkinson's.

The Times reported that Bush’s health had been fading in the past several days, and his former secretary of state and longtime friend James A. Baker III arrived at his Houston home to check on him.

Bush grew alert and reportedly asked Baker, "Where are we going, Bake?" and Baker replied "We're going to heaven," the Times reported.

"That's where I want to go," Bush said, according to the Times. He died barely 13 hours later, surrounded by friends and members of his family, the newspaper reported.

Baker told the Times that "It was as gentle a passing as I think you could ever expect anyone to have. And he was ready."

In a statement issued after Bush’s death, Baker called him a person who "led with strength, integrity, compassion and humility" and whose legacy "will be forever etched in the history of America and the world. It is a lifelong record of selfless patriotic service to our nation."

"His passion was a deep love of family and our country," Baker said. "It was my pleasure and great joy to have had him as my special friend for more than 60 years."

Former President George H.W. Bush, left, and former Secretary of State James A. Baker III share a moment as they talk about the Gulf War and liberation of Kuwait during an interview on Jan. 18, 2011, in Houston. David J. Phillip / AP file

Jeb Bush tweeted Saturday that "I already miss the greatest human being that I will ever know. Love you Dad!"

His son, Jeb Bush Jr., said nothing gave his grandfather more joy than service to others. "His leadership taught us to be kinder and gentler, to love each other," Jeb Bush Jr. said. "We will miss him dearly."

Bush will lie in state at the Capitol Rotunda in Washington beginning on Monday, and the public will be able to pay their respects through Wednesday morning, it was announced by Congressional leaders.

President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump will attend a state funeral which is being arranged, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said.

Wednesday will be declared a national day of mourning for the former president, she said.-------------------Up next: 2020 Senate contests come into focus





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Dante Chinni and Sally Bronston

WASHINGTON — After this week’s Mississippi Senate race, the 2018 midterms are now in the rearview mirror, and politically speaking, it’s time to turn attention to 2020 — not to the big presidential contest, but to the next set of Senate races.

When compared with 2016 presidential data, the results from this year’s midterms suggest an interesting list of races to watch for 2020. In some places, the story is about an electorate that’s shifting. In some, it’s about whether ticket-splitting will survive. And in others, the driving question is: How does an incumbent survive in a state that appears to be an odd fit?

In that first category are states where the vote appears to be in flux. Of particular note are Arizona, Georgia and Iowa, although Minnesota and North Carolina deserve a look as well.

Of particular note are Arizona, Georgia and Iowa, although Minnesota and North Carolina deserve a look as well.

The changes are easiest to see in Arizona, Georgia and Iowa, all seats currently held by Republicans and all in states won by Trump in 2016. In each case, there were noteworthy shifts in the 2018 vote.

Arizona, where Sen. Jon Kyl currently serves, elected its first Democrat to the U.S. Senate in three decades this year and one of its nine U.S. House seats flipped to the Democrats. In Georgia, home to Sen. David Perdue, Republican Brian Kemp had to fight hard to narrowly win the governor’s race and one U.S. House seat in suburban Atlanta flipped blue. And in Iowa, Sen. Joni Ernst’s home, two of the state’s four House seats flipped to the Democrats.

Those changes suggest voters in those three states may be acting differently in 2020 than they did in 2016. And beyond those states, there are a few others where the electoral terrain feels somewhat uncertain.

North Carolina is usually a battleground and continuing demographic changes (more college degrees, more racial and ethnic diversity) may make it difficult for Republican Sen. Thom Tillis.

North Carolina is usually a battleground and continuing demographic changes (more college degrees, more racial and ethnic diversity) may make it difficult for Republican Sen. Thom Tillis. And in Minnesota, Democratic Sen. Tina Smith faces the question of which electorate will show up next Election Day. Smith won comfortably this year, but Trump just missed carrying the Democratic bastion in 2016 and he will likely campaign hard there in 2020.

Also on the 2020 watch list are two seats where the presidential campaign could play an outsized role, one held by Republican Susan Collins in Maine and one held by Democrat Gary Peters in Michigan.

In both cases these senators are behind enemy lines, at least in presidential terms – Maine voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 by about 3 points and Michigan went for President Donald Trump very narrowly, by less than a point.

But 2018 suggests those incumbents may be looking at different landscapes in two years.

Maine looks like it could be tougher sledding for Collins in 2020. This past November the state went solidly Democratic in the gubernatorial race and gave a huge win to Independent Sen. Angus King, who caucuses with the Democrats in Washington. The Democrats also picked up a House seat.

In Minnesota, Democratic Sen. Tina Smith faces the question of which electorate will show up next Election Day.

In Michigan, Peters might have an easier time. Trump’s narrow win in Michigan was seen by some as an indication that the state was headed rightward politically, but in 2018 voters there snapped back, hard, giving solid wins to both Democratic gubernatorial and Senate candidates. In addition, two GOP-held House seats flipped Democratic.

Beyond those battlegrounds, there are a few states where the incumbent seems to be out of his element, fighting to hold onto a seat in a state that may not be a good political match.

In 2017, Jones, a Democrat, won in a state that Trump had just carried by 28 points the previous year.

The most obvious case here – and likely the most endangered Senator in 2020 – is Alabama’s Sen. Doug Jones. In 2017, Jones, a Democrat, won in a state that Trump had just carried by 28 points the previous year. Jones’ win had more than a little to do with his opponent, Republican Roy Moore, who was accused of having sexual contacts with teenage girls. But in 2020, Moore won’t be on the ballot and Trump likely will.

And out west in Colorado, Republican Sen. Corey Gardner may be in something of the same boat. Gardner won a close race, by less than 2 points, in 2014, but Colorado seems to have moved leftward in the past few years. Hillary Clinton carried the state by five points in 2016 and this fall Colorado elected a Democratic governor, Jared Polis, by more than 10 points. A House seat in suburban Denver swung to the Democrats as well. That looks like challenging terrain for a GOP incumbent.

Keep in mind: this is a very early list. Any number of elements could change its composition. We don’t know which senators, if any, are retiring yet. We don’t know the state of the 2020 economy. And, as this week made clear, we don’t know all the revelations that will ultimately emerge from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe. Any of those factors could impact an individual seat or the larger climate around the next election.

But for now, keep this group of seats in mind. Post-2018, this is Data Download’s starting point for the 2020 Senate conversation.-------------------Obama aides say Beto O'Rourke reminds them of the ex-president. Obama agrees.





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Alex Seitz-Wald

WASHINGTON — Rep. Beto O'Rourke may have lost in Texas, but he's winning in Obamaland.

Aides to the former president and the man himself say O'Rourke's campaign against Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, gave them flashbacks to Obama's precocious political rise and has positioned the young white congressman as an early if unlikely heir to the first black president's "hope and change" mantle.

Obama said as much at an event in Chicago last week and some of his former political lieutenants have been publicly encouraging O'Rourke to consider a 2020 presidential bid, while privately counseling him on what to expect should he jump in.

Obama and his coterie are personally closer to any number of other potential candidates, especially former Vice President Joe Biden, and you'd be hard-pressed to find a photograph of Obama and O'Rourke together. Obama didn't even endorse O'Rourke in his Senate campaign.

But in O'Rourke, Obama veterans see not only an inspiring political celebrity, but, like Obama, a tactical innovator who eschewed the political industrial complex of pollsters and consultants and used technology in new ways to connect directly with supporters and multiply the force of his fundraising and ground game.

"The reason I was able to make a connection with a sizable portion of the country was because people had a sense that I said what I meant," Obama told his former strategist David Axelrod last week, adding that O'Rourke has that same quality.

"It felt as if he based his statements and his positions on what he believed. And that, you'd like to think, is normally how things work. Sadly it's not," Obama added.

O’Rourke, now back at home and soon to be unemployed when his term in congress ends — he gave up his House seat to run for the Senate — recently changed his tune on a bid for the presidency, opening the door to a possible run. Some in Texas are encouraging him to challenge Texas' other Republican senator, John Cornyn, in 2020, although O'Rourke's family is wary about embarking on another two years of campaigning of any kind.

O'Rourke has received invitations to speak to Democratic groups in early presidential states like Iowa and New Hampshire, but has yet to accept them, according to a former senior adviser to his campaign.

"We've had a lot of former Obama alumni saying: 'If we can be helpful as you think about this, let us know. If you want our perspective on what it's like to run a national campaign, let us know,'" said the former O'Rourke aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

And a new group, co-founded by a former Obama field organizer, has sprung up to attempt to draft O'Rourke into the presidential race. "Beto has a special ability — like President Obama did — to make people believe in the best version of America," said Lauren Pardi, who worked on Obama's campaign in New Hampshire.

Not everyone who worked in the Obama White House is ready for O'Rourke. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Obama's first chief of staff, trashed the Texas Democrat in an interview with MSNBC on Thursday, saying: "He lost. You don't usually promote a loser."

As a young El Paso city councilman, O'Rourke broke with the local party establishment — including the congressman he later defeated in a primary — to back Obama over Hillary Clinton in 2008, calling him "very principled and enthusiastic" and an "ideal leader" in an interview with The El Paso Times.

And like many other Democrats of his generation, O'Rourke has clearly drawn inspiration from Obama, on everything from mannerisms to rhetoric.

"If you look at Obama, if you look at Trump, they both won because they had this kind of rock star appeal ... a kind of viral intensity,” said Craig Smith, a Democratic strategist and longtime adviser to Bill Clinton, who saw from the other side in 2008 as a campaign aide to Hillary Clinton how challenging running against a political celebrity like Obama can be. "I'm not sure who else we've got out there who can run as a rock star."

Rock-star status was only the most visible part of Obama's upset victory over Clinton. Another key part was his innovative use of technology, which allowed Obama to continue raising money after Clinton tapped out her large donors and to organize volunteers more effectively.

O'Rourke's campaign broke new ground, too, and not only by livestreaming hours of the congressman's travels around Texas. It also put their entire field-organizing plan online, which allowed volunteers to plug into the campaign's system and set up more than 800 "pop-up offices" to supplement the roughly dozen official sites.

And like Obama, O'Rourke's record-breaking fundraising was only possible thanks to a recognition of the power of digital fundraising — and the need to invest in it heavily and early — which people involved in O'Rourke's digital program credit to David Wysong, the congressman’s longtime chief of staff and adviser.

But like Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who also once swore off consultants, O’Rourke would have to hire some if he scaled up a campaign beyond Texas.

Rep. Beto O'Rourke, D-Texas, campaigning for the Senate in San Antonio on Oct. 31. He lost to the Republican incumbent, Ted Cruz. Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images

"Right now, Beto's problem is he's got more best friends than he ever knew he had,” said Garry Mauro, the Texas land commissioner, and friend of both O'Rourke and his father. "You can't be fresh-faced if you've got consultants who are running their 25th campaign because they're going to water down your fresh face so badly and try to get you to do things they're comfortable with because they've done it in their 25 other campaigns.”

And there's one obvious and critical difference between Obama an O'Rourke: race.

Obama beat Clinton in 2008 by combining the voting power of African-Americans, the most loyal demographic group in the Democratic Party, with that of young white progressives — a coalition that could be especially important given the large number of Southern states on the early presidential primary calendar.

Yvette Simpson, who is African-American and the new head of the liberal group Democracy for America, which has just started asking its members about 2020 and is not yet close to making any endorsements, said she would love to see a person of color as the party's presidential nominee, but cautioned not to rule out O'Rourke.

"He's clearly not black, you can't change that — he probably wouldn’t want to," she said in jest. "But for a candidate who is not brown or black, he did a really job of engaging brown and black voters in Texas."

Dan Pfeiffer, a former Obama White House aide who now hosts "Pod Save America," urged Washington not to count out O'Rourke.

"The whole conversation around Beto has been eerily familiar to me, because these are the exact arguments people made to me when I told them I was considering working for Barack Obama 10 years ago," he wrote this week in an essay calling on O'Rourke to run.

CORRECTION: (Dec. 2, 5:58 p.m. ET): An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of former Obama White House aide Dan Pfeiffer. His surname is spelled Pfeiffer, not Pfieffer.-------------------Iran test fires ballistic missile capable of carrying warheads, Pompeo says





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Phil McCausland and Farnoush Amiri

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Saturday that Iran's government had just test-fired a medium-range missile "that is capable of carrying multiple warheads."

The ballistic missile Iran tested has the ability to hit parts of Europe and any location in the Middle East, the secretary said, which he claimed would violate a U.N. Security Council resolution that called Iran to not pursue "any activity related to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic missile technology."

"We condemn these activities," Pompeo said, "and call upon Iran to cease immediately all activities relating to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons."

Pompeo reiterated that sentiment on Twitter.

On Sunday, a senior Iranian official said the country's missile program was not in breach of U.N. resolutions.

"Iran's missile program is defensive in nature... There is no Security Council resolution prohibiting the missile program and missile tests by Iran," state news agency IRNA quoted Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qasemi as saying.

Qasemi did not confirm or deny that Iran had carried out a new missile test.

Iran has repeatedly said its missile program is purely defensive and denied its missiles are capable of being tipped with nuclear warheads.

The language of the U.N. Security Council Resolution "calls on" rather than "forbids" Iran from testing its missiles, according to Trita Parsi, the president of the National Iranian American Council. The very U.N. resolution that Pompeo cited is also the very nuclear deal the Trump administration withdrew from earlier this year, Parsi added.

"We had a functioning deal and you may not have agreed with all the contents of it but it actually contained this conflict," he said. "Trump came in, ripped it up and now we are seeing more missile tests, we’re seeing escalation and we are seeing a drift towards war."

Iran agreed to halt the development of its nuclear weapons program and allow international checks of its facilities under the Iran nuclear deal, or the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, that the Obama administration negotiated in 2015. In exchange, the U.S. and several other countries fulfilled the landmark achievement by rolling back crippling economic sanctions.

Iran had not tested a similar weapon for more than a year, Parsi said, because of that agreement, but that changed after the U.S. withdrew from the nuclear deal.

"The Iranians have essentially stopped this testing," Parsi said, "and Trump is now escalating things with sanctions and as a result we are back into conflict."

Iran last announced that it had tested a similar missile with a range of about 1,200 miles in September of 2017 and noted that the missile could carry several warheads, according to Reuters.

Pompeo reiterated that this latest test confirmed the Trump administration's concerns that the Iranian government had no intention of complying with the nuclear deal.

"As we have been warning for some time, Iran's missile testing and missile proliferation is growing," Pompeo said in Saturday's statement. "We are accumulating risk of escalation in the region if we fail to restore deterrence."

And though it may have not been in direct violation of the agreement, other experts say it violated the spirit of the deal.

"There is a question of good faith here, and I think that's consistent with Pompeo's rhetoric," said former Ambassador Lincoln Bloomfield, who served in the past three Republican administrations, most recently as the assistant secretary of state for political-military affairs under President George W. Bush.

Bloomfield said that this missile test appeared to be a statement of defiance from Iran, directly responding to evidence that Brian Hook, special representative for Iran and senior policy adviser to the secretary of state, presented this week that he alleged proved that Iran had violated U.N. resolutions against the proliferation of weapons.

Standing near used missile tubes retrieved from multiple locations in the Middle East, Hook said during a news conference at Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling in Washington, D.C., that Iran had greatly expanded its missile capabilities and had shared them with proxy rebel groups in numerous Middle Eastern nations.

Bloomfield said that this missile launch may have been in direct response to this display and the Trump administration's harsh words for the Iranian regime.

“There is a desire to not lose faith and back down directly to tough rhetoric from the United States,” Bloomfield said. “It’s not surprise if Iranians say that, ‘I don’t care how many missile parts you’ve put together and traced to our factories you’re not going to scare us.’”

But while Bloomfield said he was fairly confident that Iran would ultimately fold to economic and internal pressure, Parsi said the major concern from this missile launch surrounds what the Trump administration chooses to do.

"It is Pompeo’s reaction that is quite a big deal and not the actual missile test itself," he said.-------------------Trump agrees to temporarily halt U.S. trade war with China





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Jonathan Allen

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — President Donald Trump agreed to temporarily hold his next round of fire in the U.S. trade war with China in order to give Washington and Beijing more time to talk, the White House announced Saturday.

Word of the deal, which essentially sets up a process for more negotiation, came hours after Trump met with Chinese President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of the G-20 summit here and after Air Force One had departed for Washington.

"This was an amazing and productive meeting with unlimited possibilities for both the United States and China," Trump said in a statement released by the White House. "It is my great honor to be working with President Xi."

Under the agreement, Trump will hold off for 90 days on his vow to increase U.S. tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods from 10 percent to 25 percent on Jan. 1. But if negotiators can't come to a broader agreement at the end of that time, the tariffs will rise, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in the statement.

In exchange for Trump pausing the planned increase, China agreed to buy a "not yet agreed upon, but very substantial amount" of U.S. goods from the agricultural, energy and industrial sectors, according to Sanders' statement. China also will make fentanyl, a deadly synthetic opioid, a controlled substance, the White House said.

On a political level, the agreement gives Trump some breathing room as his re-election campaign gears up. Some critics of his policy have said that raising tariffs on Chinese goods is likely to increase prices for voters.

Aaron Friedberg, a Princeton University professor of politics and international affairs, told NBC News before the G-20 summit that such a temporary cease-fire — setting up a structure for further negotiations — was the likely outcome of the Trump-Xi talks.

"It kind of kicks the can down the road," he said. But, he noted, "the differences are deep."

Beyond the trade deficit that occupies much of Trump's attention, the U.S. has a long list of grievances it wants to address with Beijing in any upcoming negotiations. They include forced technology transfer, intellectual property protection and cyber crimes, according to the White House statement.

On another trade front, Trump said Saturday night that he will soon terminate the North America Free Trade Agreement so that there is no fallback pact if Congress does not approve of his new USMCA deal with Mexico and Canada.

“Congress will have a choice of the USMCA or pre-NAFTA,” Trump said aboard Air Force One.

Proponents of the three-nation deal have hoped that lawmakers would be able to act on it before Democrats take control of the U.S, House of Representatives in January. But with technical and practical hurdles in the way, that is a tall order.-------------------Mattis accuses Putin of trying to 'muck around' in US midterm elections





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Associated Press

WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Jim Mattis on Saturday took aim at Russian President Vladimir Putin, accusing him of trying to "muck around" in the U.S. midterm elections, of duplicity in arms control and of acting irresponsibly in last weekend's naval confrontation with Ukraine.

In remarks at the Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California, Mattis said the U.S.-Russian relationship has deteriorated over the last two years.

"We are dealing with someone that we simply cannot trust," he said. "There is no doubt the relationship has worsened."

Mattis did not elaborate on his claim that Russia tried to interfere in last month's elections, adding only, "We are seeing a continued effort along those lines." He added more generally, "It's his efforts to try to subvert democratic processes that must be defended."

Citing Russia's seizure of Ukrainian vessels and sailors, President Donald Trump canceled his plans to meet with Putin at this weekend's Group of 20 summit in Argentina, but he said he looked forward to meeting Putin soon. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov called the canceled Trump-Putin meeting a missed opportunity, saying it didn't "help settling a number of important international problems."

The naval incident further escalated a tug-of-war that began in 2014 when Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula and supported separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine. It also has prompted global concern and renewed Western criticism of Russia.

Mattis portrayed the latest incident as evidence that the administration's defense strategy, announced nearly a year ago, was correct in refocusing from the post-9/11 wars to what Mattis has called an emergence of "great power" competition with Russia and China.

Mattis, in a speech at the Reagan Presidential Library and during a question-and-answer session afterward, was unyielding in his criticism of Putin. Asked how the U.S. can deter further Russian confrontation, the former Marine general placed the blame for worsening relations all on the Russian president.

"This is a very complex situation because Mr. Putin is clearly a slow learner," Mattis said. "He is not recognizing that what he is doing is actually creating the animosity against his people. He's not acting in the best interests of the Russian people, and he is actually causing NATO to rearm" — an allusion to increased defense spending by many European NATO members, as well as the conduct of bigger allied military exercises and billions of dollars in additional U.S. spending on military training and operations in Europe.

"We are dealing with Putin's duplicitous violation of the INF Treaty," Mattis said. He was referring to the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces accord between Washington and Moscow that the White House has indicated it intends to withdraw from soon.

The Trump administration asserts that Russia has been violating the treaty by producing and deploying land-based missiles the accord had banned. Moscow denies any violation.

Mattis did not mention directly the administration's intention to withdraw from the treaty, saying instead, "We will re-energize our arms control efforts, but the onus is on Russia."-------------------Russian spokesman says there were contacts on Trump Tower, but they 'disappeared'





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Keir Simmons and Phil Helsel

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — A spokesman for Russia’s government said Saturday that only two emails and a phone call took place between President Donald Trump’s former personal lawyer Michael Cohen and Russian officials about a planned Trump Tower project.

But Russian officials gave the exchanges no more attention than any other business proposition, spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on the sidelines of the G-20 summit in Argentina.

Peskov told NBC News in an interview that “every week dozens and dozens of foreign businessmen are approaching us, mentioning possible investments, searching for contacts.”

He said Trump representatives ceased contact with the Russians.

"For us, it's not different," Peskov said. "For you, it’s a future president Trump. For us, it’s one of the other applicants."

Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen pleaded guilty this week to lying to Congress about the proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow and admitted discussions continued into June 2016 during the presidential campaign.

The revelations raised new questions about Trump's involvement in a possible Moscow deal that never came to fruition.

Peskov said there were “two emails and one telephone call, returned telephone call, asking what they wanted and why they wanted to be in contact with [the Russian] presidential administration.”

He said “we told them that Russian presidential administration is not dealing with construction works” but they could arrange contacts with potential Russian counterparts at an economic forum in St. Petersburg.

Peskov claimed the Trump side stopped making contact and “they did disappear,” and Peskov said he never had any personal conversations with Cohen.

Asked about how some might struggle to believe that the lawyer for a U.S. presidential candidate made contact with Peskov’s office and that it came to nothing, Peskov said: “This is not our struggle, it's their struggle, we wish them success.”

Peskov’s statements Saturday and documents filed in relation to Cohen’s plea deal seem to contradict Peskov’s prior statements on Russia’s involvement in the proposed Trump Tower deal.

Peskov said in August 2017 that "we do not react to such business topics — this is not our work — we left it unanswered," the Washington Post reported.

But Peskov seemed to say Saturday that there was a return telephone call. In the plea agreement documents, prosecutors wrote that Cohen did receive a response from the Putin press secretary’s office.

Cohen’s plea on Thursday marked the first time that Trump and his private business dealings in Moscow were named in open court as part of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russia's ties to the Trump campaign.

Prosecutors said Cohen lied to minimize links between Trump and his Moscow building project and to give the false impression that the project had ended before the Iowa caucuses in February 2016. In reality, Cohen continued to pursue Russian approval for Trump's project as late as June 2016.

Trump has claimed Cohen is lying to secure a lesser sentence and called him a "weak person."

Cohen, 52, pleaded guilty in August to eight felony counts of tax evasion, bank fraud and campaign finance violations, including two counts related to hush-money payments that Cohen said were made to women at the then-candidate's direction during the 2016 campaign to keep them from discussing affairs they said they had with Trump.

The president claimed that "everybody knew" about the project, which he characterized as "more or less of an option that we were looking at in Moscow."

Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi said Thursday’s guilty plea “provides additional documented proof that President Trump’s inner circle has brazenly lied and covered up the truth to protect the President,” and that "this desperate dishonesty makes all Americans ask what the Russians have on Trump, politically, personally or financially."

Pelosi, who could become House Speaker once the new Congress takes session, said Congress must pass legislation to protect Mueller’s investigation from any interference.

Cohen will be sentenced in both his cases Dec. 12 in federal court in Manhattan. In Thursday's case, brought by Mueller, Cohen could receive up to six months jail time. In the previous case, it remains to be seen if prosecutors in New York seek to further decrease their recommended sentence of 46 to 63 months.

Keir Simmons reported from Buenos Aires, Argentina; Phil Helsel from Los Angeles.-------------------Embattled Florida election official Brenda Snipes rescinds resignation





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Dennis Romero

Embattled Broward County, Florida, elections supervisor Brenda Snipes said Saturday she was rescinding her resignation.

The move announced by her attorney came a day after Republican Gov. Rick Scott, citing "misfeasance, incompetence and neglect of duty," issued an executive order to immediately remove and replace her.

Snipes' attorney, Burnadette Norris-Weeks, said Saturday that Scott removed her because he wanted to embarrass her and "tarnish her record."

" ... and we will be fighting this," Norris-Weeks said. "In addition to that, Dr. Snipes hereby rescinds her resignation."

Republican leaders, including President Trump, criticized Snipes for her handling of the Nov. 6 election in which Scott defeated Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson for U.S. Senate. Some in the GOP made unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud.

Snipes also was blamed for failing to produce data quickly on the vote count and for 22 voided ballots that were accidentally mixed in with valid ones.

Snipes submitted her resignation Nov. 18, saying she was deeply troubled by the GOP allegations during a tumultuous election that also saw Democratic gubernatorial contender Andrew Gillum concede to Republican Ron DeSantis. Her resignation was supposed take effect in January.

But Scott announced Friday that Snipes had to go immediately, and he replaced her with Peter Antonacci, head of Enterprise Florida, a public-private joint venture that promotes business development in the state.

"After a series of inexcusable actions, it's clear that there needs to be an immediate change in Broward County and taxpayers should no longer be burdened by paying a salary for a Supervisor of Elections who has already announced her resignation," Scott said Friday.-------------------Extended interview: Colin Powell reflects on his relationship with George H.W. Bush





Extended interview: Colin Powell reflects on his relationship with George H.W. Bush copied!

The former Secretary of State speaks to Lester Holt about his time working with George H.W. Bush as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Read More-------------------The remarkable love story of George and Barbara Bush





The remarkable love story of George and Barbara Bush copied!

Lester Holt has a look at the remarkable partnership between George and Barbara Bush, which spanned seven decades and now lives on through five children, 17 grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.

Read More-------------------Pres. Trump cancels G20 news conference ‘out of respect’ for George H.W. Bush





Pres. Trump cancels G20 news conference ‘out of respect’ for George H.W. Bush copied!

Trump was scheduled to speak at a news conference on Saturday, but canceled in light of former President George H.W. Bush’s death, adding it “puts a damper” on his high-stakes dinner with Chinese President Xi.

Read More-------------------Colin Powell remembers former President George H.W. Bush





Colin Powell remembers former President George H.W. Bush copied!

Retired General and former Secretary of State Colin Powell served as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under George H.W. Bush. He reflects on their work together and the time after Bush lost his reelection campaign.

Read More-------------------The unique bond shared by father and son, 41st and 43rd presidents





After surviving a devastating bus crash, a hockey player is determined to get back on the ice 02:02-------------------China aims to boost economic ties with Germany in Trump era





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Andy Eckardt

HAMBURG, Germany — A new chapter of the love affair between China and Germany is unfolding as the protectionist Trump administration targets both countries with tariffs.

The president this week once again raised the prospect of introducing a new 25 percent tariff on imported cars, rattling nerves in Germany — which exports $20 billion worth of vehicles to the U.S. annually.

The reason that the small truck business in the U.S. is such a go to favorite is that, for many years, Tariffs of 25% have been put on small trucks coming into our country. It is called the “chicken tax.” If we did that with cars coming in, many more cars would be built here..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 28, 2018

Calls for further expansion of political and economic cooperation between Beijing and Berlin resonated loudly at this week's China Meets Europe summit in this northern German port city.

While China's drive to strengthen old trade relations and seek new alliances in Europe has raised red flags in Washington, German Chancellor Angela Merkel last year said Europeans "must really take our fate into our own hands." Her comments followed bruising G-7 and NATO meetings.

“In Germany, we are thinking about new strategic alliances because we have a feeling that we cannot trust our old alliances and that we need to adapt to a new world order,” said Henning Voepel, director of the Hamburg Institute of International Economics.

China is already Germany's top trading partner — with a volume of more than $204 billion in 2017, putting it ahead of the United States for the second consecutive year. But it is also waging a trade war with Washington.

More than half of Berlin's trade with Beijing is handled in the port city of Hamburg, which the Chinese respectfully call “Han Bao” or “Fortress of the Chinese” due to longstanding ties. Every third container in the port either arrives from China or is destined for it.

A total of more than 900 Chinese companies have branches in Germany, including 550 such firms that are based in Hamburg.

Voepel said American trade protectionism was costing the U.S. global influence — with China stepping in to fill the vacuum.

“In economic terms, China has been making rapid gains on the West for quite some time now, and the United States' apparent withdrawal from globalization is expediting China’s political upsurge,” Voepel said.

A poll published by the Pew Research Center this week found that 67 percent of Germans said their country should cooperate more with China, while only 41 percent said the same about the U.S.

China is the world's second-biggest economy, while Germany is fourth.

China and the U.S. have traded tit-for-tat tariffs on goods worth hundreds of billions of dollars in sectors from automobiles to agriculture and energy.

"Europe, and in particular Germany, is very worried about an escalation of the trade conflict," said Marcel Fratzscher, president of the Berlin-based German Institute for Economic Research (DIW). "The concern is that, having dealt with Mexico, Canada and China, President Trump will pick on Europe next."

When Donald Trump first threatened tariffs on car imports this year, analysts warned that the measures could seriously impact the revenues of European carmakers.

“It could mean a significant 7 to 10 percent hit on 2019 earnings estimates to the main automakers in Europe,” Daniel Lacalle, chief economist at Tressis Gestion, told CNBC.

Executives with Germany’s leading carmakers — including Daimler, Volkswagen and BMW — are scheduled to attend a White House meeting on trade policies on Tuesday, according to media reports.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde react as President Donald Trump arrives late for a breakfast meeting discussion on gender equality at the G-7 summit in June. Neil Hall / EPA

In his opening speech at the summit, former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said that Trump's "America First stance will bring about changes for all of us in trade, politics, as well as in foreign and security policies."

A. Wess Mitchell, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, last month highlighted that Chinese investments in Europe totaled $318 billion last year.

Mitchell said that Beijing “owns or controls almost a tenth of Europe’s entire port capacity” and warned that the U.S. “must not see it as a foregone conclusion that countries will automatically remain friendly to America.”

But Wolfgang Ischinger, a former German ambassador to Washington who is now head of the Munich Security Conference, told this week's summit that the relationship with China "represents one of the greatest historic opportunities" for both Germany and the 28-country European Union.

Against the backdrop of China's trade war with the U.S. and supplemented by projects including its modern-day revival of the old Silk Road known as the Belt and Road Initiative, China is investing in trade infrastructure in more than 60 countries worldwide. German cities like Hamburg and Duisburg are becoming major logistics hubs for Europe-bound trains from China.-------------------Trump, Merkel praise former President George H.W. Bush





Trump, Merkel praise former President George H.W. Bush copied!

Before a bilateral meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the G20 in Buenos Aires, President Donald Trump praised former President George H.W. Bush following his death on Friday. Bush was 94.

Read More-------------------Bush's 'new world order' gives way to Trump's 'no world order'





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Jonathan Allen

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — America once advocated for a "new world order." Now, it seems to prefer no world order.

The transformation took nearly 30 years, but it was encapsulated Friday in two moments: an exultant greeting between the Russian president and Saudi crown prince here, and the death of internationalist President George H.W. Bush in Houston.

It was at the opening of the G-20 summit here that Vladimir Putin and Mohammad bin Salman signaled with a bro slap — half high-five, half handshake and all scofflaw — that they will do as they please without fear of repercussion from President Donald Trump or any allies who would need his help to make sanctions stick.

Just hours later, Bush — who had announced an allied invasion of Iraq in 1991 by calling for "a new world order — a world where the rule of law, not the law of the jungle, governs the conduct of nations" — died at the age of 94.

The reasons for the transformation are complicated — a combination that includes Trump's belief in national sovereignty, his affinity for authoritarian leaders, the relative decline in American power and possibly Trump's personal interests — but the result is clear, Trump critics say.

"It's deeply disturbing that this president has become a global enabler of despots," said Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I., who is a member of the House Foreign Relations Committee. "He praises them as if they're close personal friends and then he fails to do anything to stop them or even condemn them when they commit some of the worst atrocities in recent memory."

Putin has tampered with Democratic elections across the globe, including in the United States, annexed Crimea from Ukraine and most recently detained Ukrainian ships and sailors operating in waters that were not his.

A recent CIA assessment found with "high confidence" that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman ordered the murder of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi at a Saudi consulate in Turkey in October.

Rather than publicly condemn them on the global stage provided by this summit — or simply confront them — President Donald Trump chose to maintain his distance from them by keeping them off his official calendar.

Trump has refused to blame bin Salman for Khashoggi's death, citing Saudi investments in U.S. goods as a reason not to upset the relationship between the two countries. His son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has become close with bin Salman, and Trump's business has benefited from Saudi dollars over the years.

And while he attributed canceling a planned meeting with Putin here to the Ukraine situation, Russia's foreign ministry suggested Trump did it because he couldn't afford the political optics in the days after former aide Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about Trump's efforts to develop real estate in Moscow while he was running for president.

Trump long denied having any financial interest in Russia, even though he pursued business opportunities there for many years.

Whatever Trump's calculus, Putin and bin Salman seemed to be celebrating like bank robbers who had just pulled off the heist of the century while strolling past armed guards.

"Opportunist leaders like Putin, MBS, and others take advantage of ... the void created as America retreats from internationalism to nationalism, the appetite for flattery of a needy president, and the greed of a self-dealing (and potentially corrupt) one," David Rothkopf, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former CEO and editor of Foreign Policy magazine, said in a text message.

"Thus, by virtue of his ideology and the deficiencies of his character he has transformed America's historic role and created a space for some of the world's worst bad actors to flourish and violate international laws and norms of behavior with impunity," he added.

Trump's kid-glove treatment of autocrats — Putin, bin Salman, North Korea's Kim Jong-un and others — is all the more apparent because of his tendency to impose economic and diplomatic pain on long-standing American allies.

"One of Trump’s most troubling instincts is to support authoritarian leaders at the expense of democratic leaders," said retired Ambassador Nicholas Burns, who served presidents of both parties. "He is close to MBS and refuses to criticize Putin, Kim Jong-un, [Chinese President] Xi [Jinping] and [Turkish President] Recep Erdogan. At the same time, he has been incessantly critical of [U.S. allies]. He has turned American foreign policy on its head. It is weakening the U.S. and diminishing our credibility."

It's bad enough for advocates of the old American-led liberal world order to see bin Salman and Putin flaunting their immunity from true sanction by the leader of the free world. But there's additional danger in the prospect that Trump's quiescence will give others the idea that they can get away with whatever they want, too.

"Other nations are watching this," Laura Rosenberger, director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy and a former foreign policy adviser to Hillary Clinton, said. "If we send signals that this sort of behavior will not be met with consequences, there’s no reason for others not to adopt these practices."

And, she added, "this is essentially a playbook that anyone can pick up and use if they want to."-------------------George H.W. Bush: A look back at the former president's life





After Yale, Bush moved to Midland, Texas, where his father had connections in the oil industry. After a couple of years working for someone else, Bush started his own drilling and exploration company, which was soon lucrative and made him a rich man in his own right. After about a decade, though, his ambitions turned to politics, and after an unsuccessful run for the U.S. Senate in 1964, he won a congressional seat in 1966. He is seen with his wife, Barbara, during one of his campaigns during the 1960s.-------------------Michael Cohen guilty plea points to several of Trump’s family members





Michael Cohen guilty plea points to several of Trump’s family members copied!

In the wake of Michael Cohen’s guilty plea, congressional investigators are combing through witness testimony for possible misleading or untruthful statements from the President’s family members and some of his closest advisers.

Read More-------------------Lawyer: Cohen's statements do not contradict Trump Jr. on Russia deals





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Anna Schecter

Media reports Friday suggested former Trump Organization lawyer Michael Cohen's statements to a judge contradicted Donald Trump Jr.'s 2017 testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee about Trump family business interests in Russia.

But Trump Jr.'s attorney Alan Futerfas told NBC News there is no contradiction.

Trump Jr's testimony "clearly referred to two different proposals," Futerfas said, one with Russian oligarch Aras Agalarov and his son Emin that ended in 2014, and another with long-time Trump associate Felix Sater that started in 2015.

"I have no concerns about Donald Trump Jr.'s information. He was open, straightforward, forthright and honest," Futerfas said.

Of the two proposed deals, Trump Jr. was more involved in talks with the Agalarovs for a Trump building in Moscow, according to a person with knowledge, but the deal was only preliminary and was soon scrapped.

Trump Jr. testified that deal "sort of faded away I believe at the end of '14… Certainly not '16."

An NPR story Friday cited that testimony as evidence that his testimony contradicted Cohen's statements. The story was later updated.

Trump Jr. also told the Judiciary Committee about a second Moscow development proposal that was initiated in 2015. That proposal was honchoed by Cohen and Sater, a Russian-born U.S. citizen who worked on the Trump Soho building that was completed in 2008 in New York. Sater is a felon who pleaded guilty to participating in stock fraud in 1998.

Trump Jr. testified that he was only "peripherally aware" of the deal Sater and Cohen were trying to put together.

Cohen pleaded guilty Thursday to lying to Congress about the deal he worked on. Court documents filed Thursday said Cohen made false statements to investigators "to (1) minimize links between the Moscow Project and [Trump] and (2) give the false impression that the Moscow Project ended before 'the Iowa caucuses and ... the very first primary,' in hopes of limiting the ongoing Russia investigations."

Cohen also told the judge that he briefed President Trump and his family members on the deal multiple times.

Trump addressed the Cohen/Sater Moscow project directly in speaking to reporters on Air Force One Thursday.

"I was running my business while I was campaigning," he said. "There was a good chance that I wouldn't have won, in which case I would have gone back into the business, and why should I lose lots of opportunities?"-------------------Florida Gov. Scott ousts Broward elections supervisor Snipes, charges 'inexcusable actions'





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Dartunorro Clark

Florida Gov. Rick Scott removed embattled Florida elections supervisor Brenda Snipes on Friday, citing "misfeasance, incompetence and neglect of duty" after widespread vote-counting issues in Broward County during the closely watched gubernatorial and Senate races.

Scott issued an executive order ousting Snipes, who had previously announced her retirement effective in early January, and he appointed Peter Antonacci who heads Enterprise Florida, a public-private joint venture that promotes business development in the state.

"After a series of inexcusable actions, it's clear that there needs to be an immediate change in Broward County and taxpayers should no longer be burdened by paying a salary for a Supervisor of Elections who has already announced resignation," Scott said in a statement. "I know that Pete will be solely focused on running free and fair elections, will not be running for election and will bring order and integrity back to this office."

Snipes oversaw the recount efforts in Broward County and came under intense criticism, including from President Donald Trump and other GOP officials, who made unsubstantiated allegations against Snipes of voter fraud. Snipes was also criticized for not providIng up-to-date information on how many ballots remained uncounted and for processing 22 voided ballots that were accidentally mixed in with valid ones.

After the recount concluded, incumbent Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson conceded to Scott, a Republican, in the Senate race. And in the gubernatorial contest, Democrat Andrew Gillum conceded to Republican Ron DeSantis.

Following the recount, Snipes announced her resignation in mid-November saying it was time to "pass the torch." Her retirement was slated to go into effect Jan. 4, 2019.

Snipes served in the post for 15 years and was appointed to clean up the county's election system in 2003 former GOP Gov. Jeb Bush.-------------------Lawmakers demand investigation into VA after ongoing GI Bill issues





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Phil McCausland

A bipartisan group of senators and one member of the House have sent a letter demanding the Department of Veterans Affairs' inspector general investigate continuing issues in paying student veterans the benefits they are owed under the Forever GI Bill.

Sens. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, and John Boozman, R-Ark., along with five Democratic and three Republican senators and one Democratic congressman, signed the letter requesting the inspector general look into allegations that VA did not intend to reimburse veterans "for missed or underpaid benefits" related to the Forever GI Bill. Schatz is the top Democrat and Boozman is the chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee on veterans affairs.

Sen. John Boozman, R-Ark., left, and Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii. Alex Brandon, J. Scott Applewhite / AP file

The Forever GI Bill went into effect Aug. 1, 2018, but VA announced Wednesday it would delay implementing the way the new law calculated housing allowances until Dec. 1, 2019. In some cases, that could mean that some student veterans are receiving fewer dollars than they are owed under the Forever GI Bill because the federal agency decided it would use a different rate for calculating GI Bill recipients' housing benefits.

NBC News previously reported that the VA privately told congressional staffers on Wednesday that they did not plan to repay some students who were paid less than they were due under the Forever GI Bill.

That would mean that VA was not planning to comply with the law.

"The VA’s continued ambiguity about whether it will fulfill this legal requirement threatens to erode our veterans’ confidence in the VA’s ability to deliver promised care and benefits and demands close oversight and accountability,” the lawmakers wrote Friday. “It is important that VA fix the technical and staffing shortages that contributed to its inability to implement the Forever GI bill so that it can continue to provide housing stipends to veterans."

The lawmakers asked the inspector general to investigate the following:

Will VA apply the Forever GI Bill housing stipend rates to make retroactive payments to GI Bill beneficiaries?

If not, what legal authority did the VA have to ignore the law?

Who is responsible for determining which veterans can receive retroactive payments?

How and when will VA process those payments?

How have VA’s investment in its computer infrastructure at its regional processing centers affected delays in implementing the law?

How have staffing shortages at regional processing centers contributed to delays?

How is VA leadership organized to address computer infrastructure challenges at those processing centers?

How is VA leadership organized to address staffing shortages throughout the organization?

Boozman said that he asked VA Secretary Robert Wilkie at a hearing in September about GI Bill underpayments, and Wilkie promised to resolve the issue. But the senator said he required further assurances.

"When recent news reports suggested the VA was not acting to help veterans who have been shortchanged, the department outlined its plans to remedy the situation," Boozman said. "Those plans fall short. These veterans must be fully repaid for errors they did not cause and that is what I expect the VA to do."

But that's not the only fiery letter lawmakers sent on Friday in an attempt to address potential VA issues.

Rep. Mark Takano, speaks at a forum to examine evidence-based violence prevention and school safety measures in Washington on March 20, 2018. Cheriss May / NurPhoto via Getty Images file

Rep. Mark Takano, D-Calif., led 24 Democratic members of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs in sending a letter on Friday to Wilkie demanding that he be very clear whether the federal agency plans to make up the difference to those student veterans who may have been underpaid their housing allowances. Takano is expected to chair the committee when the Democrats take control of the chamber next year.

The letter notes numerous times when VA statements have been inconsistent and led to confusion over whether students who were shortchanged would be repaid under the Forever GI Bill once the law came into full effect on Dec. 1, 2019.

"This level of obfuscation from VA is unacceptable," the lawmakers wrote. "Student veterans were made a promise when we passed the Forever GI Bill and VA is legally obligated to follow through on that promise."

Members of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs have been very dissatisfied with the statements that came from Veterans Benefits Administration head Paul Lawrence, who said Thursday at a congressional hearing that auditing all the education claims that were made prior to December 2019 could be “a tremendous amount of activity for no gain.”

In the letter released Friday, Democratic members said they wanted to ensure that students would receive all the money they are owed in all cases.

Confirming NBC News' previous reporting, the letter from House Democrats said that "VA held a call with Congressional staff during which VA stated that it will be overly burdensome" to recalculate Forever GI Bill housing payments. The letter added that for this reason, VA said on the call that it "does not plan on retroactively correcting any underpayments" that were caused by the delayed implementation of the Forever GI Bill.

The letter requested that Wilkie provide "clear answers" to their questions, many of which were similar to those asked in Schatz and Boozman's letter.

Both letters were sent despite a statement released by Wilkie, Lawrence's boss, hours after the congressional hearing Thursday. Wilkie appeared to override Lawrence and commit to paying veterans the full benefits they are owed under the Forever GI Bill.

“Although VA has encountered issues with implementing the Forever GI Bill on Congress’ timeline, we will work with lawmakers to ensure that — once VA is in a position to process education claims in accordance with the new law — each and every beneficiary will receive retroactively the exact benefits to which they are entitled under that law,” Wilkie said in a statement.

Schatz said that this promise alone was not enough.

“Secretary Wilkie may be saying the right things, but until the VA invests money to address the ongoing staffing and IT challenges facing the claims backlog, our veterans will remain robbed of the benefits they were promised,” Schatz said a statement. “I expect the Secretary to come up with a plan so that the VA can audit and process retroactive payments for underpaid or missed claims. And I look forward to the Inspector General helping us hold him accountable to that plan.”-------------------Judge postpones ruling on Comey request to invalidate subpoena from House Republicans





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Pete Williams

WASHINGTON — A federal judge Friday put off an immediate ruling on a request from former FBI Director James Comey to invalidate a subpoena that requires him to appear before a closed hearing called by House Republicans.

Comey and former Attorney General Loretta Lynch received subpoenas last week, ordering them to appear for interviews in early December about their roles in the FBI's investigations of Hillary Clinton's emails and Russian election meddling. Republican Rep. Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said the two were subpoenaed after they declined repeated requests to appear voluntarily.

Comey's subpoena required him to appear Monday, December 3. But at a court hearing Friday, House lawyers said that has been delayed to Tuesday. Federal District Court Judge Trevor McFadden asked for more legal briefs to be fielded on the issue over the weekend and scheduled a hearing for Monday to announce his decision.

Comey is asking the judge to quash, or annul, the House subpoena, saying he would appear before an open hearing but not a closed proceeding to take his deposition. He said his goal was to prevent House Republicans "from using the pretext of a closed interview to peddle a distorted, partisan political narrative about the Clinton and Russian investigation through selective leaks." Republicans have repeatedly maintained, Comey said, that the FBI was lenient on Hillary Clinton but extra-tough on President Donald Trump.

House Republicans seemed intent on undermining confidence in the FBI and the Justice Department while Robert Mueller's special counsel investigation is underway, he said.

Courts rarely act to quash congressional subpoenas, hoping to avoid what they view as essentially political disputes. But Comey argued that his subpoena should be invalidated because its issuance broke House rules that call for open hearings and because the intent of House Republicans was to harass and intimidate witnesses, not to objectively seek the truth.

Thomas Hungar, the general counsel for the House of Representatives, called Comey's request frivolous and grandiose. "No district court in the history of the Republic has ever granted such a request. "

David Kelley, the lawyer for Comey, seemed to acknowledge that point when he said, "Here's your opportunity, judge, to make some law."

Hungar also said the Constitution shields members of Congress, including congressional committees, from lawsuits. And he said the House is free to set its own rules and to give committees the authority to take depositions from witnesses behind closed doors.

"Mr. Comey may disagree with the focus of the committee's investigation, and he may disagree with the views of the individual members," Hungar said, "but he cannot dispute the authority of the committee to conduct oversight of the DOJ and the FBI."

Time is running out for House Republicans, with only a few weeks remaining before the end of the current Congress. Democrats take control of the House in January.

Former Attorney General Lynch has not yet taken legal action to challenge her subpoena, and her lawyer was unavailable Friday for comment.-------------------What Trump gets right — and wrong — about the auto industry





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Paul A. Eisenstein

Now that President Donald Trump, Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau have officially signed the USMCA, the trade bill that replaces the North America Free Trade Agreement, the auto industry is focusing its attention on a series of escalating moves in what is fast becoming a full-scale trade war with China.

One of the major questions looming over the G-20 economic summit of world leaders is whether Trump can deliver on signals that the U.S. may be on the verge of a breakthrough.

Ever since he entered the presidential race in 2016, Trump has put an emphasis on automotive trade. He repeatedly lashed out at Ford’s plans to move small car production to Mexico, and took other automakers like General Motors and Toyota to task over automotive imports.

Tariffs

Threats turned to action only this year, however, when the White House authorized new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Both GM and Ford have, in recent weeks, indicated that they will each take a $1 billion hit due to higher costs — which eventually will be passed onto consumers.

But, at least from an automotive perspective, the administration’s moves have backfired. Only a few, niche models — such as the Buick Envision SUV — are imported from China right now, so the impact of the higher tariffs is minor in that arena. But higher costs for Chinese-made parts will be felt in the form of higher prices for vehicles assembled in the U.S., according to industry leaders.

Tit-for-tat

The other problem is that China has retaliated by raising duties to 40 percent on American-made vehicles as they enter China — even as it lowered tariffs on other auto imports to 15 percent. That has all but shut down sales of vehicles like the Ford Mustang, the BMW X5 sport-utility vehicle produced at a plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and the Volvo S60 sedan rolling off the carmaker’s new assembly line in Charleston, South Carolina.

China's President Xi Jinping waits for the start of the G20 summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina on Nov. 30, 2018. Natacha Pisarenko / AP

That poses a big problem for Volvo, which spent $1.1 billion on the factory and had expected half of its output to be shipped abroad. On Thursday, the automaker issued a statement warning that “trade issues may impact the pace of the expansion” of the Charleston plant, which was expected to see employment grow from 1,500 to 4,000 workers over the next three years.

Volvo’s global CEO Håkan Samuelsson took things further, indicating that the carmaker would slow hiring as a result of the trade dispute. Worse, some of the production planned for the factory could be moved abroad.

“We…thought Charleston could build cars for China,” Samuelsson told USA Today during a Wednesday interview. “That will not work.”

Production

Volvo isn’t the only automaker considering ways to respond to the trade war with China. During a news conference at the Los Angeles Auto Show, BMW’s North American CEO Bernhard Kuhnt pointed out that company is now “the highest value exporter of U.S.-made vehicles.” But, with its American-made sport-utility vehicles effectively locked out of one of its biggest markets, the company may transfer some production to China, as well.

A few weeks ago, auto industry insiders were hoping they’d dodged another bullet: Trump’s threat to impose tariffs on potentially all automotive imports. He had earlier authorized the Commerce Department to determine whether foreign-made vehicles posed a threat to U.S. national security and, if so, to impose a 25 percent tariff based on Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. Commerce officials missed what had been seen as a deadline for acting last month, but Trump’s latest tweets suggest he is still serious about the tariffs and may push Congress to help him put them in place.

That has the industry “very alarmed,” said Cody Lusk, president and CEO of the American Imported Automobile Dealers Association. Such a move could add $7,000 to the cost of a $35,000 vehicle, he warned.

But the president seems determined. "The reason that the small truck business in the U.S. is such a go to favorite is that, for many years, Tariffs of 25% have been put on small trucks coming into our country," Trump tweeted on Wednesday. "If we did that with cars coming in, many more cars would be built here and G.M. would not be closing their plants in Ohio, Michigan & Maryland."

The tweet was a clear reference to General Motors’ Monday announcement that it likely would be shutting down three plants. But that move, GM officials emphasized, reflected the slowdown of demand for sedans, Americans shifting to SUVs, and not the effect of foreign competition.

Auto parts

It’s not just foreign-made vehicles that would be impacted. Most of the major foreign-owned automakers now run plants in the U.S., with companies like Toyota, Nissan and Honda producing more than two-thirds of the vehicles sold here in plants now dotting the American landscape. But they still rely on foreign-made components. Toyota, for one, has estimated that import duties could raise the price of a U.S.-assembled Camry sedan by as much as $1,600, with some Lexus models jumping by $5,000 or more.

Employees work along a Geely Automobile Corporation assembly line in Cixi, Zhejiang province June 21, 2012. Carlos Barria / Reuters file

Even modest price increases could pose serious problems for an industry that is expected to end 2018 with its second annual decline in sales.

Industry leaders are clearly hoping for a breakthrough in China talks during the G-20 meeting. But they know that the administration’s trade policies will continue to pose challenges even then.-------------------Judge rules against Trump administration in 'sanctuary' case





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Dareh Gregorian

The Trump administration cannot withhold millions of dollars in public safety grants from so-called "sanctuary" states, a federal judge in New York ruled Friday.

The "court concludes that defendants did not have lawful authority to impose these conditions," Judge Edgardo Ramos wrote in his 43-page decision.

The attorneys general of New York and six other states had filed suit against the Department of Justice earlier this year, charging the agency had improperly tacked on three immigration-related conditions they had to comply with in order to get grants for criminal justice initiatives.

The grant conditions sought to force local recipients to share information with federal immigration authorities.

SIGN UP FOR BREAKING ALERTS FROM NBC NEWS

"So-called 'sanctuary' policies make all of us less safe because they intentionally undermine our laws and protect illegal aliens who have committed crimes,” then-U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions said when he announced the conditions in June.

New York State Attorney General Barbara Underwood countered that, "Local law enforcement has the right to decide how to meet their local public safety needs — and the Trump administration simply does not have the right to require state and local police to act as federal immigration agents.”

New York state Attorney General Barbara D. Underwood speaks on May 15, 2018, in Albany, New York. Hans Pennink / AP file

The suit, which was also filed on behalf of New Jersey, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Virginia, Massachusetts, Virginia and Washington, argued the feds overstepped, because the agency didn't have the legal authority to impose the changes.

The judge ordered DOJ to release more "than $29 million in grant funds that plaintiffs would otherwise use for law enforcement and public safety purposes."

The ruling is the fourth successful legal challenge to the DOJ conditions to date.

The grant funds — which are used for a variety of public safety programs — are named for Edward Byrne, an NYPD officer who was shot to death in 1988 while guarding the home of a Guyanese immigrant who'd been targeted by street gangs.

Underwood called the ruling "a major win for New Yorkers' public safety."

A spokesman for the Department of Justice declined comment.-------------------Most of this Afghan family was killed or injured in a U.S. airstrike





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Nanna Muus Steffensen

LASHKAR GAH, Afghanistan — Ehsanullah, 14, was missing parts of his face and skull when he was rushed into the emergency room.

His left eyeball was crushed, his right eye missing, his forehead an open wound.

He cried out as a doctor pressed gauze over his head, the material quickly turning dark red.

“They wanted to hit the Taliban, but they bombed us instead,” said the boy’s mother, Qarara, who like many in Afghanistan goes by one name. “We are sinless people. How could this happen to us?”

Ehsanullah lies in hospital after surgery. Nanna Muus Steffensen / for NBC News

Most members of Qarara's extended family were killed or wounded on Nov. 24 when at least one airstrike called in by American forces slammed into their home in Nad-e-Ali, a village in Afghanistan’s Helmand Province. Her husband, Obaidullah, and one of Ehsanullah’s older brothers, Esmatullah, died, she said. Thirteen others were injured.

They are among the latest on a growing list of casualties amid an intensifying U.S. air operation aimed at forcing Taliban militants to agree to a peace deal and end America’s longest war.

Qarara was hit by shrapnel and debris. Shortly after she arrived in the emergency room, doctors rolled in an ultrasound scanner to check that her unborn baby’s heart was still beating. It was.

From a hospital bed, Qarara despairingly described how her family became swept up in the latest wave of violence. Near her home, Taliban militants fired at warplanes, then ran inside the house.

“My husband told them to get out,” Qarara said, but a few of the fighters remained as the airstrikes hit, then fled.

NBC News could not confirm Qarara’s account.

Sgt. 1st Class Debra Richardson, spokesperson for Resolute Support, the American-led NATO coalition in Afghanistan, said in a statement that the airstrike that killed and wounded members of the family was called in as self-defense, and that the Taliban had used civilians as human shields.

Medical staff scanned Hedayat's head to see if two pieces of shrapnel had reached the boy's brain. They had not. Nanna Muus Steffensen / for NBC News

“It is often difficult to discern the presence of noncombatants inside structures when the Taliban are shooting from those locations, but we take every precaution possible,” Richardson said. “We have the duty to be precise.”

Resolute Support did not say exactly what was being done to avoid causing harm to civilians. Afghanistan’s Ministry of Defense did not reply to inquiries. In May, Human Rights Watch criticized the U.S. and Afghan governments for not adequately investigating the civilian toll of the airstrikes.

In the first 10 months of 2018, U.S. military aircraft dropped 5,982 munitions on the country, surpassing the total for 2017, which stood at 4,361,according to U.S. Central Command data.

Meanwhile during the first nine months of 2018, the U.N. recorded 2,798 civilian deaths and 5,252 injured, a total of 8,050 casualties, the highest number in four years.

More civilians die at the hands of militants than in any otherattacks. Aerial operations, such as the one that devastated the family in Helmand, have accounted for less than 10 percent of the total casualties this year. That figure is a sharp 39 percent increase from 2017, a recent U.N. report found.

The war has also claimed thousands of American and Afghan security forces.

Close to 2,400 Americans have died since 2001 when the U.S. helped topple the Taliban government after it sheltered the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, Osama bin Laden.

Since 2015, more than 28,000 Afghan security forces have been killed, President Ashraf Ghani recently said.

President Donald Trump's envoy to Afghanistan is reaching out to many top Taliban figures as he tries to launch peace talks and end the war before the president can pull the plug and order U.S. troops home, foreign diplomats have told NBC News.

‘What will be his future?’

Survivors of the Nov. 24 airstrike were sprawled in the hospital run by Emergency, an Italian nongovernmental agency that treats those wounded in the war in Helmand’s capital, Lashkar Gah.

Ehsanullah’s brother, Hedayat, 4, lay covered in brown dust and blood on a stretcher. He stared blankly at the medical staff as they cut off his clothes to look at his body, which was riddled with shrapnel. His mouth curled down.

Rahmatullah lies in intensive care after an operation. Nanna Muus Steffensen / for NBC News

Nearby, the boys’ nine-year-old sister sat in a wheelchair, a dried smear of blood staining her face. Alone and silent, she gazed distantly across the room. An older cousin told the nurses her name was Parwana.

A nurse guided Parwana on stiff, bent legs into a bathroom where the child was undressed and hosed down. The floor turned brown with dust and blood. There Parwana sat shivering on the edge of a toilet, a green towel over her shoulders. The nurse shaved Parwana’s hair, revealing a bloody gash. Still the child said nothing.

Later in the evening, the girl lay with a white bandage around her head and gazed into the X-ray machine above her. She finally spoke in a whisper: “I want to go home.”

Dr. Ibrahim Khushal, a senior trauma surgeon, cleaned Ehsanullah’s head before wrapping a large bandage around it. After a two-hour operation, the doctor sat barefoot and cross-legged on a sofa, waiting for the next child to be brought in for surgery. He rubbed his eyes: It had been five hours since the family arrived at the hospital.

“What makes us tired is not the work. It’s the thought of what will happen to the patients afterward,” Khushal said. “What life will they return to? This is what makes us tired.”

He added: “I am sad. A young boy with such big injuries. No eyes, brain out. What will be his future?”-------------------Israel police recommend Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu be charged with bribery





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Paul Goldman and Saphora Smith

TEL AVIV, Israel — Israeli police are recommending bribery and fraud charges be brought against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife in the third corruption scandal to engulf the Israeli leader.

Authorities said Sunday that they have evidence that Netanyahu made regulatory decisions that favored Bezeq telecommunications group in exchange for positive coverage on its news website, Walla. Netanyahu has denied any wrongdoing.

The decision of whether to charge Netanyahu rests with Israel’s attorney general, who is still deliberating on whether to indict the prime minister in two other cases.

If indicted, the four-term prime minister could face one of the greatest challenges to his leadership yet.

Despite his dominance of Israeli politics, the newest police recommendation comes just after his right-wing coalition's majority in parliament was reduced to the slimmest of majorities. After Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman resigned last month in protest over a ceasefire with Gaza militants, Netanyahu was left with control with just 61 of the 120 seats in the Knesset a year out from Israel's next election.

In a joint statement with Israel’s Security Authority on Sunday, police said they had enough evidence to charge Netanyahu and his wife, Sarah, of taking "bribes, fraud and breach of trust.”

They also recommended charging Netanyahu of “fraudulently accepting aggravated circumstances” and Sarah of disrupting investigative and judicial proceedings.

The police also said they had enough evidence to charge Bezeq’s controlling shareholder, Shaul Elovitch, with bribery as well as other officials at the company.

Shaul Elovitch Amir Cohen / Reuters

“The main suspicion is that the prime minister took bribes and acted in a conflict of interest by intervening and acting in regulatory decisions that favor Shaul Elovitch and the Bezeq Group and at the same time demanded directly and indirectly to interfere with the content of the Walla site in a way that would benefit him,” the report read.

Netanyahu on Sunday denied the allegations and dismissed the police recommendations as having “no legal status.”

“I am sure that even in this case the competent authorities, after examining the matter, will reach the same conclusion — that there was nothing because there is nothing,” he posted on Twitter.

The prime minister also denies allegations in the other two cases put forward against him.

The first alleges that from 2007 to 2016 Netanyahu and his family received cigars, champagne and jewelry worth "hundreds of thousands of shekels" from Hollywood mogul Arnon Milchan and other supporters.

In return, Israeli police say Netanyahu pushed for the so-called Milchan Law, which ensures that Israelis who return to live in Israel from abroad are exempt from paying taxes for 10 years.

The second case alleges that Netanyahu worked out a deal for favorable coverage with Arnon "Noni" Moses, the publisher of an Israeli newspaper, Yediot Aharonot, in exchange for backing a bill that would weaken a rival newspaper.

Netanyahu is not the only Israeli public figure to be embroiled in corruption scandals.

Last month, Israeli police recommended that charges be brought against Israel's Interior Minister Aryeh Deri in another corruption case.

The police accused Deri of committing fraud and breach of trust among other charges. Deri has denied any crimes were committed.

Paul Goldman reported from Tel Aviv; Saphora Smith from London.-------------------The Dead Sea is dying. A $1.5 billion plan aims to resurrect it.





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Linda Givetash

AMMAN, Jordan ­­— At the southern tip of the Dead Sea, Sameer Mahadin recalls when the shoreline was visible from the shaded veranda of his farmhouse. The once 10-minute walk to the water’s edge now takes an hour trekking over cracked, salt-encrusted soil.

The Dead Sea is dying rapidly. The biblical body of water lying between Israel and Jordan is retreating by more than three feet a year, creating sinkholes that swallow up buildings and roads, and forcing the rich seaside landscape on which the tourism industry relies to fade into memory.

It is the saltiest sea on earth. Some experts believe it will be gone by 2050, while others say it will never fully disappear but survive at a fraction of its current size.

But after two decades of discussions about how to resurrect the Dead Sea, there is a glimmer of hope but with a huge price tag: a $1.5-billion project to build a desalination facility in Jordan to transform Red Sea water into drinking water, while pumping the remaining salty brine into the Dead Sea.

Meetings to finalize the technical details and its design are expected within weeks — a major step forward for the project.

There are references to the Dead Sea in the Old Testament and the Quran, making it significant to Christians, Jews and Muslims. One of the oldest known manuscripts of the Hebrew Bible, the Dead Sea Scrolls, were found in the region, and a section of the Jordan River about six miles north of where it flows is also considered the baptism site of Jesus Christ.

The sea is not disappearing without vengeance, though, as roughly 6,000 sinkholes have formed.

“Even the devil is not here,” said water management and environmental engineer Eshak Alguza, as the parched earth that was once underwater crunches and shatters like breaking tiles beneath his feet.

The heavy price of sinkholes has become apparent both in Jordan and on the sea's Israeli side.

At least two of the Israel's beaches and one tourist resort have closed, while parts of Highway 90 have vanished into the earth.

Residents in the community of Ein Gedi have turned into activists, demanding assistance as they watch the land crumble around them. “They feel that their government has abandoned them,” said Clive Lipchin, director of the Transboundary Water Management Center at the Arava Institute in Israel.

There are a multitude of reasons contributing to the decline of the Dead Sea, ranging from damming to mineral extraction. The region’s combative politics are stirred into all of them.

"This is a man-made catastrophe," said Alguza, who is a project manager with EcoPeace Middle East, a nongovernmental organization that works with Jordanian, Israeli and Palestinian officials.

EcoPeace engineer Eshak Alguza breaks off a chunk of salt on what used to be the bottom of the Dead Sea. Ziad Jaber / NBC News

The sea is fed by the Jordan River and other smaller waterways. Ali Subah, general secretary of Jordan’s water and irrigation ministry, said the flow of the Jordan River has dropped by more than 90 percent from its recorded peak.

The river has been diverted by Israel upstream, while Syria built dams along the Yarmouk River, substantially cutting off the flow that converges with the Jordan.

Data from Jordan’s water ministry shows that rainfall in eight of the 10 years from 2004 to 2014 was below average in volume, depriving rivers and aquifers that rely on it.

Groundwater is among the sources being depleted in an attempt to meet demands. Marwan Al-Raggad, a hydrogeology professor at the University of Jordan, said the Disi aquifer, which is about 1,093 yards underground and feeds the Dead Sea, could run dry in as few as 50 years.

In addition to sources being cut off, seawater is evaporating naturally and quickly. Climate change is expected to cause temperatures in the area to rise 5 to 11 degrees by the end of the century and reduce rainfall by 30 percent.

Mineral extraction is a big industry in the region, and it is also taking a toll. Companies on both sides of the border are pumping an estimated 61.3 billion gallons a year of the seawater, although some critics allege that number is substantially higher. The water is placed in pools so it can evaporate, leaving behind valuable potash, bromine and other substances.

The retreating sea has left behind infertile saline land that, when dissolved by freshwater, becomes unstable and collapses into craters.

Jordanian farmer Sameer Mahadin tends to his chili crop. His family's farm once sat on the southern shores of the Dead Sea, but the water had now evaporated. Ziad Jaber / NBC News

Mahadin, 55, said the air is less humid than it was decades ago, forcing him to buy water to irrigate his crops. About one-quarter of the farms in the area have been sold or gone out of business, he said.

A pipe dream

The Red Sea-Dead Sea conveyance project would seemingly resolve multiple issues: filling the gap of the region’s freshwater scarcity, stabilizing levels of the Dead Sea and setting a high bar for peace and collaboration between Israel, Jordan and the Palestinians.

Such cooperation is needed at a time when Jordan and Israel are entering renegotiations over a deal to share land and water that was part of a 1994 peace treaty.

While politics have been blamed for dragging out discussions over two decades, there have also been many technical complications. Among them is that foreign water could change the chemistry of the Dead Sea. Studies estimate that up to 105 billion gallonsof water could be pumped in safely into the sea annually, but any more than that would risk the formation of algae or gypsum, which would turn the water a milky white or lead to the formation crystals on the surface.

Nabil Zoubi, the project director, said Israel and Jordan will pick up one-third of the bill through support of a grant from the U.S. government and loans from the French development fund, European Commission, and the Italian and Spanish governments.

The remaining two-thirds would be footed by the private sector.

After many delays, Zoubi said the project is nearly ready tobe opened to bidders, but a few technical aspects still need to be ironed out.

The best-case scenario would see construction begin in early 2021 and take around three-and-a-half years to complete.

The southern end of the Dead Sea in Jordan. Ziad Jaber / NBC News

The first phase of the project would produce 62 billion gallons of brine, while after the second phase, another 30.4 billion gallons of brine will be pumped into the Dead Sea. But experts say 10 times that amount is needed to stabilize the sea, meaning the Red-Dead would simply be a drop in the bucket.

The Arava Institute’s Lipchin said a Plan B is required for the agricultural, tourism and other sectors that will inevitably suffer. He argues that political wrangling and excitement about the Red-Dead project are wasting precious time.

Fathi Al Haweimel, an elected government official for the area south of the sea in Jordan, said the area's religious, political and historical significance leaves little time to waste.

"Saving the Dead Sea is the responsibility of the entire world," he said.-------------------'Yellow Jacket' riots rock Paris, leaves 133 injured, 412 arrested





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Saphora Smith and Nancy Ing

PARIS — A clean-up operation was underway in Paris Sunday after violent protests injured 130 people and led to the arrest of 412.

Some 5,000 demonstrators — known as "Yellow Jackets" due to their fluorescent garb — descended onto Paris' streets Saturday in the latest round of protests against rising gas taxes and the high cost of living.

Rioters tore apart parts of the city, torching cars, smashing windows, looting stores and tagging the Arc de Triomphe with multi-colored graffiti. Police fired tear gas and water cannons as some demonstrators launched projectiles over police lines.

Officials said those hurt when the demonstrations turned violent included 23 police officers.

At one point, a group of protesters encircled the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier located under the Arc de Triomphe and sang the French national anthem before being dispersed by police.

Officials were cleaning the streets Sunday and removing graffiti from the arc.

The demonstrations, which kicked off on Nov. 17, were sparked by planned tax hikes on gas but have morphed into a wider rebuke of French President Emmanuel Macron's governance and his attempts at economic reform.

For over two weeks, motorists have blocked highways across the country by setting up barricades and deploying convoys of slow-moving trucks.

Burned cars on the streets of Paris Sunday morning. Benoit Tessier / Reuters

The “Yellow Jacket” activists — named after the neon vests French drivers are obliged to carry in their vehicles in the case of roadside emergencies — want Macron to call off the tax increases. Some have called on him to resign.

Tear gas surrounds riot police as they clash with protesters near the Arc de Triomphe on Saturday. Veronique de Viguerie / Getty Images

For his part, Macron has condemned the violence and has said he would hold an emergency meeting on security with the prime minister and interior minister on Sunday.

On landing in France after returning from the G-20 summit in Argentina, Macron traveled straight to the Arc De Triomphe to survey the damage.

He has vowed that those responsible for the violence will pay for their actions.

"I will always respect disagreements, I will always listen to opposition but I will never accept violence," he told reporters at a press conference in Buenos Aires on Saturday.

He added that the violence had "nothing to do with the expression of legitimate anger" showed by peaceful protesters.

Nancy Ing reported from Paris and Saphora Smith reported from London.-------------------After surviving a devastating bus crash, a hockey player is determined to get back on the ice





After surviving a devastating bus crash, a hockey player is determined to get back on the ice copied!

19-year-old Ryan Straschnitzki was traveling with the Humboldt Broncos junior hockey team earlier this year when a semi-truck collided with their bus, killing 16 people. The accident left Ryan paralyzed and determined to play again — now with a goal of competing in the Paralympics one day.

Read More-------------------U.S. Navy hospital ship provides Venezuelan refugees with desperately needed medical care





U.S. Navy hospital ship provides Venezuelan refugees with desperately needed medical care copied!

Each day, some 5,000 Venezuelans leave their country, many of them seeking for medical care for their families. Around 200 doctors and medical staff are aboard the U.S. Navy ship Comfort, positioned in the Caribbean Sea, to help.

Read More-------------------Anger over rising fuel prices erupts with clashes between Paris police and protesters





Anger over rising fuel prices erupts with clashes between Paris police and protesters copied!

The protests were organized by a citizens’ protest movement known as the gilets jaunes — or yellow jackets. French President Emmanuel Macron is holding firm on the economic policies that inspired the protests, despite police arresting hundreds and Paris seeing its worst domestic unrest in years.

Read More-------------------Inside the humanitarian mission to help to Venezuelan refugees (Part 2)





Inside the humanitarian mission to help to Venezuelan refugees (Part 2) copied!

Doctors aboard the U.S. Navy hospital ship Comfort, positioned just 61 miles off the coast, treat Venezuelan refugees who are desperately in need. NBC’s Kerry Sanders follows 3-year-old Emily’s journey to the ship to receive life-changing medical care.

Read More-------------------Inside the humanitarian mission to help to Venezuelan refugees (Part 1)





Inside the humanitarian mission to help to Venezuelan refugees (Part 1) copied!

It’s the largest refugee flight in the hemisphere, though you may not have heard of it. In Venezuela, 5,000 are fleeing each day and three million have already left the country, having fled from their homeland and its free-falling economy. NBC’s Kerry Sanders speaks to families starting a new life in neighboring Colombia and to those trying to help.

Read More-------------------NASA's OSIRIS-REx spacecraft to arrive at asteroid Bennu after long journey





Get the Mach newsletter.

By David Freeman

Just days after its InSight lander touched down safely on Mars after a long, uncertain journey, NASA is getting set for another nail-biter: the arrival of the space agency's OSIRIS-REx spacecraft at its target, a skyscraper-size asteroid known as Bennu.

The long-anticipated rendezvous with the space rock will occur around noon EST on Dec. 3. NASA will live-stream coverage of the cosmic meet-up from 11:45 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. ET. A preview of the OSIRIS-REx mission will begin at 11:15 a.m. ET.

OSIRIS-REx — the name is an acronym for Origins, Spectral Interpretation, Resource Identification, Security-Regolith Explorer — launched into space in September 2016 and has been making its way toward Bennu since.

The looming arrival of the unmanned craft has energized members of the mission team.

"Like many team members, I have been working on this mission for many years," Sandy Freund, a mission manager at Lockheed Martin, the maker of the OSIRIS-REx spacecraft, told NBC News MACH in an email. "We have been waiting years to be at Bennu and are incredibly excited to see this asteroid up close."-------------------Pope Francis says he's worried about homosexuality in the priesthood





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Reuters and The Associated Press

VATICAN CITY — Men with deep-rooted homosexual tendencies should not be admitted to the Catholic clergy, and priests who are gay should be celibate or leave rather than lead a double life, Pope Francis said in a new book.

Francis made the comments in a book-length interview with Spanish priest Fernando Prado called “The Strength of Vocation,” in which he discusses the challenges of being a priest or nun today.

The pope said in the book that homosexuality in the Church “is something that worries me." It is due to be published this week in several languages. An advance copy of the Spanish version was provided to NBC News by a Vatican spokesperson and the Italian version was made available to Reuters. The Vatican did not comment on the content of the book.

“The question of homosexuality is a very serious one,” he said, adding that those entrusted with training men to be priests must be certain that candidates are “humanly and emotionally mature” before they can be ordained.

"In our societies, it even seems homosexuality is fashionable. And this mentality, in some way, also influences the life of the church," Francis was quoted as telling his interviewer.

Francis is quoted in the book as commenting on a clergyman who had told him that having gays in Catholic religious housing "isn't so grave" because it's "only an expression of affection."

That reasoning "is in error," Francis said. "In consecrated life and priestly life, there is no room for this kind of affection."

“For this reason, the Church urges that persons with this rooted tendency not be accepted into (priestly) ministry or consecrated life,” he said.

He urged homosexuals who are already priests or nuns to be celibate and responsible to avoid creating scandal. “It is better that they leave the priesthood or the consecrated life rather than live a double life,” he said. The pope has warned Italian bishops in the past to vet seminarians closely and reject those they suspect might be gay.

Still, Francis, as he has in the past, stressed that gay Catholics contribute to the life of the church. He said the church must always remember that "they are persons who will live in the service of the church, of the Christian community, of the people of God. Let's never forget this perspective."

Francis in his papacy has sought to stress that while obeying church teachings, the faithful must also be compassionate and open to others with different views.

Catholic teaching considers homosexual activity sinful, and that everyone, except married heterosexual couples, should abstain from sex.

The mid-August interview with Francis was conducted less than two weeks before Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano, the Vatican’s former ambassador to the Vatican, threw the Church into turmoil with a bombshell statement against the pope and Vatican officials on Aug. 26.

Vigano said a “homosexual network” existed in the Vatican, whose members helped promote each other’s careers in the Church.

He also accused the pope of having ignored alleged sexual misconduct with adult male seminarians by former American cardinal Theodore McCarrick, 88.

The Vatican said Vigano’s accusations were riddled with “calumny and defamation.”

The Catholic Church has been haunted for more than two decades by evidence of thousands of cases of sexual abuse of minors by clergy around the world, in countries ranging from the United States to Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Germany and Chile.

In July, McCarrick became the first cardinal to resign in nearly 100 years after U.S. Church officials said allegations made in a separate investigation that he had sexually abused a 16-year-old boy almost 50 years ago were credible and substantiated.

McCarrick has said he had no recollection of the alleged abuse of the minor, but has not commented on the allegations of misconduct with the seminarians, which allegedly took place decades ago.-------------------Religion News: Stories, photos & videos about religious faith





Jason Cohn / Reuters file

Ex-altar boy is first in Penn. to sue Catholic Church since bombshell report-------------------China and the United States come to agreement at G-20 summit around fentanyl





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Phil McCausland and Tom Winter

The United States came to an agreement with China at the G-20 summit in Buenos Aires this week over the regulation of the opioid fentanyl, which is linked to thousands of overdoses in the United States.

China and the United States released individual statements regarding the bilateral agreement about the ongoing trade war between them, and both said they had found some common ground on further regulating the drug fentanyl.

"Very importantly, President Xi, in a wonderful humanitarian gesture, has agreed to designate Fentanyl as a Controlled Substance, meaning that people selling Fentanyl to the United States will be subject to China’s maximum penalty under the law," White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry statement differed slightly, stopping short of announcing that it had fully changed the drug's designation or the penalties sellers might face. Instead, the country remained somewhat vague, committing only to enforcing the laws around fentanyl and stating that it would examine how it managed the drug.

The agreement comes after President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping and their advisers met for dinner on Saturday amid a busy G-20 summit in Buenos Aires.

The announcement around fentanyl could have major implications for drug overdoses in the United States.

Ovredose deaths reached a record high in 2017 when it rose to 72,287. More than 49,000 of those deaths involved opioids, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).

Fentanyl citrate. Joe Amon / Denver Post via Getty Images file

Fentanyl, which is a synthetic opioid, is extremely addictive and 80 to 100 times more powerful than morphine. It is added to heroin to increase the drug's potency.

In testimony before Congress in September, Paul Knierim, the DEA's deputy chief of operations for its office of global enforcement, cited Chinese chemical companies as one of the predominant sources for illicit forms of the drug.

Knierim said that there are currently about 160,000 Chinese chemical companies. Most work legitimately, he said, but there are a sizable number that "illicit drug manufacturers directly source or divert their chemicals from China for their drug production."

"Because of its low dosage range and potency, one kilogram of fentanyl purchased in China for $3,000 - $5,000 can generate upwards of $1.5 million in revenue on the illicit market with the potential of being lethal for 500,000 people," Knierim explained.

The DEA and many other agencies have played a form of whack-a-mole to combat the pipeline from these Chinese factories that produce fentanyl, but it has not been easy.

As soon as the United States updates its regulations, some of these Chinese factories will change its formulas by as little as a few molecules.

But if China has agreed to making fentanyl a controlled substance, as the White House statement described, that would mean that Chinese factory owners involved in the illegal trade of the drug could face a punishment as serious as the death penalty.-------------------Egyptian actress could face 5 years in prison for wearing revealing dress





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Associated Press

CAIRO — An Egyptian actress is facing trial next month charged with public obscenity after she showed up at the closing ceremony of a film festival in Cairo wearing a see-through dress that revealed the entirety of her legs.

Rania Youssef's trial, which is scheduled to begin Jan. 12, follows a complaint to the chief prosecutor by a group of lawyers against the young actress.

Egypt is a mostly conservative country with a Muslim majority. The Arab country of 100 million people has retained vestiges of secularism despite decades of growing religious conservatism, but Youssef's case serves as a reminder that Islamic fundamentalism continues to have a voice five years after an Islamist president was ousted by the military amid mass protests against his rule.

Youssef, who is in her 30s, faces up to five years in prison if convicted.-------------------Saudi Arabia's crown prince and Vladimir Putin laugh and clasp hands at G-20 summit





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Yuliya Talmazan

The Saudi crown prince implicated in the murder of a Washington Post columnist enjoyed a hearty laugh and enthusiastically clasped hands with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the kick-off of the G-20 summit in Argentina on Friday.

Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman grinned and repeatedly slapped a smiling Putin's hand before they sat down next to each other at the summit in Buenos Aires.

Other world leaders were not as happy to see either man. The prince, known as MBS, is believed to have ordered the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in a Saudi consulate in Turkey, according to an assessment by the CIA. Saudi officials have denied that MBS was involved while giving conflicting accounts of what happened to Khashoggi.

Putin, who's also been accused of brutally cracking down on dissidents, was at the center of another international crisis before the summit after Russian forces seized three Ukrainian ships and two dozen sailors over the weekend.

President Donald Trump tweeted Thursday that he was canceling a planned two-hour sit-down with Putin at the summit because of the military move.

Based on the fact that the ships and sailors have not been returned to Ukraine from Russia, I have decided it would be best for all parties concerned to cancel my previously scheduled meeting.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 29, 2018

The Associated Press reported that Trump, who's been publicly skeptical about the CIA's findings, walked by the chummy pair without appearing to acknowledge them.

Bin Salman met with South Korean and Mexican leaders. He also got cosy with French President Emmanuel Macron — the two spoke in hushed tones with their heads close together.

France was among a number of European nations who expressed concern about Khashoggi’s killing. Macron's government imposed sanctions this month on 18 Saudi citizens linked to the journalist's murder.

British Prime Minister Theresa May also said she would be "robust" when she talks to the crown prince about Khashoggi and the situation in Yemen, where Saudi Arabia is involved in a proxy war.

Khashoggi was killed after entering Saudi embassy in Turkey’s capital on Oct. 2.

After vehement denials that Riyadh was involved in Khashoggi's disappearance, Saudi officials admitted that the U.S.-based dissident was killed inside the embassy in Istanbul in what it called a “rogue” operation. The kingdom denies the crown prince had any knowledge of the killing.

Although U.S. intelligence assessed that the crown prince likely ordered Khashoggi's killing, Trump last week decided against imposing sanctions on an important trade ally and Middle East intermediary, saying he was not convinced the crown prince was involved.

Despite initial pleasantries, the crown prince looked sidelined during the official "family photo" of world leaders and other dignitaries, standing at the far edge of the group portrait and appearing ignored.

The first G-20 summit to be hosted in South America will wrap up on Saturday.-------------------Lu Guang, winner of World Press Photo awards, vanishes in China





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Janis Mackey Frayer

BEIJING — An award-winning photographer known for capturing images of China's environmental damage and the lives of the country's dispossessed has vanished.

Lu Guang, a U.S. green card holder who splits his time between New York and Beijing, hasn't been heard from since Nov. 3, according to his wife.

Lu had been meeting with photographers who had invited him to Urumqi, the capital of China's remote Xinjiang province.

In a phone interview with NBC News, Lu’s wife, Xu Xiaoli, said was initially not very concerned when he failed to get in touch. However, when he failed to meet a friend in Sichuan province on Nov. 5, Xu suspected something was wrong.

“The authorities haven’t informed me of his whereabouts,” she said from New York. “More than 20 days and no word from him. The longer I wait the more worried I am.”

Xu tried reaching officials in Xinjiang but was unable to find anyone able or willing to help her. Xu then contacted the wife of the photographer who had invited Lu to visit. She said they were both taken away by state security.

“I don’t know whether this is because of his work,” Xu said. “I don’t know why he was detained. He only went there to have a professional exchange with other photographers.”-------------------Ukraine bans Russian men from entering the country





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Yuliya Talmazan

Russian men between the ages of 16 and 60 have been barred from entering Ukraine after long-simmering tensions between the countries escalated into a clash on the Black Sea.

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko tweeted Friday that restrictions on Russian nationals were taken in order to prevent the formation of "private armies which in reality are representatives of Russian armed forces."

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told reporters Friday that Moscow would not reciprocate and impose similar restrictions on Ukrainian men.

Russian ships opened fire on and seized three Ukrainian vessels and 24 crew members in the Sea of Azov off the coast of Crimea on Sunday. Ukraine says the attack occurred in international waters.

Amid fears of a Russian invasion, Poroshenko introduced martial law on Tuesday for up 30 days in parts of the country deemed most vulnerable to a potential attack.

Martial law allows the president to impose restrictions, including limits on the movement of foreigners.

It also means Poroshenko can ban peaceful public protests and regulate the media. No elections can be held when it martial law is in place, but Poroshenko insists Ukrainians will be be able to vote as planned in March.

SIGN UP FOR NBC BREAKING NEWS EMAILS

Jack Watling, a research fellow at the London-based Royal United Services Institute think tank, said Poroshenko's fears were well-founded. He said Russia has stationed units on Ukrainian's eastern border that specialize in deep reconnaissance and penetration.

But Mark Galeotti, a senior non-resident fellow at the Institute of International Relations Prague, described the measure targeting Russian men as "a depressing move based in politics not security." He suggested that "agents of the Kremlin operating in Ukraine already often have Ukrainian documents, will switch to other cover identities or be women.”

The Kremlin often accuses Ukraine's government of stirring up anti-Russian sentiment.

Mathieu Boulegue, a research fellow with Russia and Eurasia program at London's Chatham House think tank, said Poroshenko’s move appeared to be “an attention-seeking reaction” that is likely to antagonize Moscow even further and play badly with the international community.

It’s not so much about “curbing the threat” as it is to show the Ukrainian public that the president is doing something about the escalation, he added.

The seizure of Ukrainian ships on Sunday was the latest rift between the neighbors. Tensions were already high after the 2014 annexation of Crimea and the ongoing armed conflict between government forces and Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine.

When Russia and Ukraine were relatively friendly, they shared the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait as part of a 2003 agreement.

But Moscow's annexation of Crimea gave it control of not just one but both sides of the strait. Most countries in the world, including the U.S. and almost all of Europe, say Russia's annexation of Crimea is an illegal occupation.

Although the 2003 agreement still stands in theory, Russia now demands that all vessels, including those from Ukraine, to request permission before they pass through.

In May, it opened the $3.69 billion Crimea Bridge, cementing its grip on this crucial bottleneck. Independent observers have pointed out that the bridge's span is lower than international standards, putting a permanent cap on the size of ship able to enter the Azov.

The move has caused huge delays in recent months, leading to claims Russia is trying to blockade Ukraine's ports and transform the Azov into a de facto Russian lake.

Some Western critics say this is all part of the Kremlin's tactic of "creeping annexation," a ploy to subtly recoup Soviet-era territory.

Ukraine is demanding that Russia release crew members of the seized ships. On Friday, the Tass news agency reported that the commanders of the three Ukrainian vessels were being transferred to Moscow for interrogation. The other 21 remained in custody in Crimea.

Poroshenko has also called on NATO to increase its presence in the Sea of Azov and encouraged Kiev’s European allies to impose tougher sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government. Both of those pleas have so far fallen on deaf ears.-------------------German plane flying Angela Merkel to G-20 suffers 'complete loss' of communications





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Andy Eckardt and Alastair Jamieson

MAINZ, Germany — German leader Angela Merkel will miss the opening of the G-20 summit in Argentina — including a scheduled meeting with President Donald Trump — after her government plane suffered what she called a "serious malfunction.”

The chancellor, along with her delegation of officials and journalists, made an unscheduled landing at Cologne-Bonn airport after the Airbus A340 lost communications about 60 minutes into its 15-hour flight from Berlin.

Merkel and Finance Minister Olaf Scholz resumed their travel to Buenos Aires on Friday aboard a commercial flight but the delay means they are due to arrive after world leaders begin discussions.

She had been scheduled to hold bilateral talks with Trump, President Xi Jinping of China and the Argentinian president. “We do not know yet whether these meetings can possibly be rescheduled for a later time,” a German government spokesman said.

A spokesman for the country's Defense Ministry said the aircraft, named after former chancellor Konrad Adenauer, experienced a "complete loss of its communication system.”

There is “no evidence of a criminal background in this incident" but a thorough investigation is underway, the spokesman said.

"It was a serious malfunction," Merkel told reporters after the delegation was brought to a hotel in Bonn to await alternative transportation. "Luckily, we had an excellent crew and the most experienced pilot of the special air mission wing."

Fire trucks were on standby because the aircraft was unable to dump fuel and made a heavier than normal landing that caused the brakes to overheat.

Bettina Schausten, the Berlin bureau chief of NBC News’ German partner channel ZDF, was on board the aircraft and described the atmosphere on board as “calm” after the captain promised a “safe landing.”

Andy Eckardt reported from Mainz, and Alastair Jamieson from London.-------------------Russia-Ukraine sea clash puts spotlight on 1994 agreement





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Alexander Smith and Yuliya Talmazan

Twenty-five years ago, Ukraine was the world's third-largest nuclear power, with more warheads than the United Kingdom, France and China combined.

The government in Kiev inherited this arsenal after the breakup of the Soviet Union, finding itself in possession of an estimated 5,000 nuclear weapons, more than 170 intercontinental ballistic missiles and several dozen nuclear bombers.

In 1994, Ukraine agreed to dismantle this stockpile in return for a promise from Russia that the country wouldn't be attacked.

But after Russian forces fired at and seized three Ukrainian naval vessels on Sunday, Kiev has pointed to this deal and suggested that the U.S. and Europe should do more to protect it against the vastly superior Russian military.

For months Ukraine has accused Russia of restricting access to its own ports in the nearby Sea of Azov, alleging the Kremlin wants to turn it into a Russian lake.

But the attack on the vessels and detention of their crews brought the relationship between the neighbors to a new low. Ukraine says the incident occurred in international waters.

Ukraine insists Moscow is again blockading the sea, something Moscow denies. Russia says it merely needs to inspect all ships passing through as a security measure to protect a $3.6 billion bridge it's built across the Kerch Strait from its mainland to Crimea, which it annexed in 2014.

It’s against this backdrop that Ukraine has invoked the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances, which was signed in 1994 by Ukraine, Russia, the U.S. and U.K.

"Ukraine gave up the third-largest nuclear arsenal" in the world, Ukrainian lawyer and human rights activist Stanislav Batryn told UkrLifeTV this week. "Today Russia violated the territorial integrity of Ukraine and is in fact starting a Third World War."

After declaring independence in 1991, Ukraine found itself with thousands of Soviet nuclear weapons that were still controlled by Russian systems.

The U.S. was extremely worried about the potential emergence of another nuclear power with ICBMs designed to target the U.S. and its allies. So Washington brokered the agreement and paid half a billion dollars for Ukraine to pass these weapons to Russia to be dismantled.

In return, Russia, the U.S. and the U.K. agreed to "refrain from the threat or use of force" against Ukraine and to respect its "independence and sovereignty and the existing borders." Belarus and Kazakhstan also gave up their smaller stockpiles in exchange for the same promises.

When Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, it was widely accepted that this agreement had been violated. After this week's clash on the Black Sea, Ukraine used the memorandum as a rallying cry.

U.S. Defense Secretary William J. Perry, left, shakes hands with Ukraine Defense Minister Valery Shmarov, center, and Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev as they stand over the crater which formerly housed a missile silo at a military base near Pervomaysk, Ukraine, on Jan. 5, 1996. Yefrem Lukatsky / AP file

"We are appealing the entire pro-Ukrainian world coalition — we have to join our efforts," Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said Monday. "We are appealing to our partners in Budapest Memorandum that took on obligations to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity."

Russian President Vladimir Putin's explanation in 2014 was that the memorandum had been agreed with a previous Ukrainian government, so was no longer valid. Most observers dismissed this as ridiculous; if agreements expired with the governments that signed them, then countless important treaties throughout history would be now void.-------------------MH370 relatives show debris, ask authorities to do more





MH370 relatives show debris, ask authorities to do more copied!

All the debris collected so far has been found by the public, said Voice 370 spokeswoman Grace Nathan. “The official investigation has found nothing.”

Read More-------------------Asia News: Breaking News, Photos & Videos on Asia





Nanna Muus Steffensen / for NBC News

As U.S. homes in on Taliban, family bears brunt of violence-------------------Inside Trump's Guantanamo, where military waits for funding for 'enduring mission'





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Julia Ainsley

GUANTÁNAMO BAY, Cuba — Inside detention Camp 6, where guards monitoring detainees' lunchtime wear face shields to avoid being spat on or splashed with bodily fluids, Rear Adm. John Ring sits calmly at a metal table bolted to a concrete floor and offers a reminder.

"I'm the innkeeper," says Ring. "I don't make laws. People in D.C. tell me when people are going away, when people may be coming in, and my job is to keep these folks comfortable, safe."

Ring, who arrived here in April, is the commander in charge of the 16-years-and-running mission known as Joint Task Force Guantanamo.

His challenge is that he's been told to keep his inn open another 25 years, but hasn't been given the money to pay for it.

The Obama administration's stated goal was to close Guantanamo Bay Prison, or Gitmo. Under President Donald Trump, the detention camp for alleged terrorists is now an "enduring mission."

There are 40 detainees left at Gitmo. Detainees who arrived as young men are growing old. Their average age is 46, and one is now 71.

Rear Adm. John Ring says without funding from Congress, he will have trouble caring for aging detainees and one detention camp will fall into disrepair. NBC News

The controversial interrogation techniques that were once synonymous with Gitmo would provide no battlefield intelligence today, Ring said, because the last detainee was transferred here in 2008.

Instead he worries about cell doors that aren't wide enough for wheel chairs and hospital beds, what it would look like to build something resembling a nursing home at Guantanamo, and one detention camp that is on the verge of falling into disrepair.

SIGN UP FOR NBC BREAKING NEWS EMAILS

Addressing those issues is not possible without $69 million the military has requested from Congress for the last five years to build a new detention camp at Guantanamo and make needed repairs to medical facilities.

Inside a detainee's cell at Guantanamo. NBC News

That camp would be called Camp 8 and become the new home of detainees in the secret Camp 7. No one without a high-level security clearance is allowed to enter Camp 7, or even know its location on the island. But Ring needs to describe it in order to make his case for funding.

"It's sort of falling into the ground and deteriorating rapidly," he said.

Upgrades in care

As for the aging population, Ring says it's a matter of when, not if, he will need wheelchair-accessible facilities.

One detainee, Abd Al Hadi, a 56-year-old Iraqi accused of commanding al Qaeda in Afghanistan, recently underwent emergency spine surgery. His recovery postponed his court hearing from September to early 2019 and he has been wheelchair-bound in the process.

Hadi's attorneys say he needed the surgery months before he got it, a claim Ring brushes off as a legal defense strategy.

Ret. Brig. Gen. Stephen Xenakis, a psychiatrist who has done work with detainees in Gitmo, said the delays in care for Hadi and others stem from the necessity of having to fly in specialists, the lack of trust that sometimes exists between the detainee patients and doctors, and medical facilities that need to be updated to detect problems, particularly in an aging population.

Inside a detainee's cell at Guantanamo. NBC News

"It's a planning issue," said Xenakis. "The question is at one point do you decide, as you look at this population and demographic, how you are going to care for heart disease without a full-time cardiologist or neuropsychiatric symptoms without a neurosurgeon."

Expanding population?

Funding needs for Gitmo are likely to grow if guards are asked to take in more detainees. So far, the Trump administration has left open this possibility but has made no decision over who to transfer there or when to do it.

Ring says with his current staffing, he could accommodate 40 more detainees. With more funding and staff, he could take in 160. But he worries about an unfunded mandate if the Trump administration decides to drastically increase the population without Congress approving the funding.

For now, as the innkeeper, he's planning for the detainees on site. A horticulture program just restarted that allows "compliant" detainees the opportunity to plant cotton, herbs and tomatoes as a reward for good behavior. Ring says that seeing a process through to the end helps keep them mentally stable.

"It has a beginning, middle and end. That's helpful for them," Ring said.-------------------Russia's response to Ukraine crisis: Deploying missile system to Crimea





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Alexander Smith

Russia's weekend maritime clash with Ukraine illustrated the vast military imbalance between the neighbors.

No fewer than 11 Russian vessels surrounded Ukraine's two light military ships and one tugboat, ramming them before eventually opening fire on Sunday, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko told NBC News.

Poroshenko insists his country is under "extremely serious" threat of a land invasion, and that's why he had to declare martial law for 30 days in regions adjacent to Russia.

The gulf in military might was further driven home when Russia announced Wednesday it would deploy another of its S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to Crimea, the peninsula it annexed from Ukraine in 2014. The S-400 can track 300 targets simultaneously including aircraft, drones and other missiles mid-flight, and has a range of 250 miles. It will be the fourth S-400 in Crimea.

Russian S-400 Triumph medium-range and long-range surface-to-air missile systems are shown off during a parade in Moscow. Sergei Karpukhin / Reuters file

According to Poroshenko, Russia also tripled the number of tanks at a base near the Ukrainian border from September to October.

"We are now strengthening our defense on all the borders with Russia," Poroshenko told NBC News' Richard Engel on Tuesday.

The U.S. currently has around 200 soldiers stationed as advisers in Ukraine.

Ukraine says that Russia is attempting to take control of the Sea of Azov. The annexation of Crimea gave it control of the Azov’s only entrance, the Kerch Strait, choking access to Ukraine’s own ports.

In May, Russia opened a $3.69 billion bridge across the strait, and Ukraine says Sunday’s clashes were evidence the Kremlin is further tightening its grip.

Kiev is concerned about how to protect a 180-mile stretch between Crimea and the eastern part of Ukraine that's already run by Russian-backed separatists.

Most of Ukraine's navy was based in Crimea when it was annexed, meaning the military lost around 80 percent of its fleet to capture or defections. Russian President Vladimir Putin has offered to give the vessels back, although he described what is left as being a "wreck."

The three Ukrainian vessels detained by Russia in the Kerch Strait on Sunday. Russian Federal Security Service / Reuters

Since 2014, fighting in eastern Ukraine has claimed more than 10,000 lives. In 2015, the rebels briefly stormed the port city of Mariupol. Poroshenko says he believes they might try again.

"I have a document of intelligence in my hands," he said Monday, explaining his decision to impose martial law. He said the files contained a "detailed description of all the forces of the enemy located at a distance of literally several dozens of kilometers from our border, ready at any moment for an immediate invasion of Ukraine."

Some experts are skeptical.

"It is very unlikely that the rebels would attempt to mount a land assault and try to push the boundaries of the conflict further into Ukraine," says Emily Ferris, a research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies, a London think tank.

Ferris points out that if anything Moscow has been attempting to politically disengage from the conflict in the east of the country, with its domestic media focusing on the country's role in Syria.

In December 2017, Moscow withdrew from an organization that oversees the often-violated ceasefire in Ukraine, likely an attempt to persuade Ukraine to deal directly with separatists, Ferris added.

"We would have to consider what Russia could gain from this," she said referring to a land assault.

Some fear the Ukrainian president is using the crisis to weaken democracy as he trails badly in the polls ahead of an election in March.

However, given the disparity between Ukraine's forces and Putin's military next door, many are alarmed by the prospect of conflict between the former members of the Soviet Union.

Ihor Kabanenko, a retired admiral with the Ukrainian navy, has for months been predicting a flare-up along the lines of the Sunday's incident.

In August, he told NBC News that "Moscow will use Ukrainian maritime vulnerability and its own maritime supremacy at the Sea of Azov to achieve this goal."

In September, the United States gave Ukraine two Island-class patrol boats, outdated vessels built for the U.S. Coast Guard in the 1980s and 1990s.

These will form part of a new so-called "Mosquito Fleet" of light vessels that Ukraine is trying to assemble

But it is no match for Russia, whose Black Sea Fleet is station in Crimea and has received a "large number" of new ships and submarines since 2014, according to the War on the Rocks website.

The boats that detained Ukraine's ships on Sunday were part of Russia's FSB security service.

Compare that with Ukraine. In October, the BBC spent time aboard one of Ukraine's remaining vessels: a small, slow fishing boat with a gun bolted to the back.-------------------Mueller casts 'dark cloud' over Trump's trip to Argentina





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Jonathan Allen

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — President Donald Trump landed here Thursday night with special counsel Robert Mueller looming over his shoulder back home and President Xi Jinping of China on his horizon.

The trick for him, as he celebrates the signing of a new trade agreement with Mexico and Canada Friday and negotiates over his trade war with China Saturday, is to prevent his domestic troubles from damaging American foreign policy interests as the G-20 meets here.

Rep. Gerry Connolly, D-Va., a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said that the "dark cloud" of the Mueller probe could affect not only Trump's "state of mind" and ability to deal with foreign leaders but his counterparts' approach toward him.

"Certainly, they don't see in front of them a strong leader with a unified country at his back," Connolly said in a telephone interview with NBC News.

SIGN UP FOR NBC BREAKING NEWS EMAILS

Already, there are signs that it is proving difficult for Trump to separate domestic politics from his agenda at this conference.

Shortly after he found out Wednesday morning that former ally Michael Cohen had pleaded guilty to lying to Congress to obscure his efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump abruptly canceled a planned meeting here with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Trump, who announced the decision while aboard Air Force One, attributed the decision to Russia's refusal to release captured Ukrainian sailors and ships. But Michael McFaul, the former U.S. ambassador to Russia under President Barack Obama, questioned the timing of the two events in an interview with MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell Thursday.

"He never criticized Vladimir Putin directly for attacking these Ukrainian sailors. Then the news about Michael Cohen drops and just a few minutes later, he decides to cancel the meeting," McFaul said. "It's very unusual that it would be canceled over Twitter, let alone unilaterally."

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Friday that she doesn't believe Trump canceled because of concern over the conflict between her country and Ukraine.

"Was Ukraine’s provocation in the Kerch Strait the true reason for the cancellation? We have heard the official explanation and taken note of it," she said. "But is it true? I think the true reason is rooted in the domestic political situation in the United States, which is crucial for decision-making.”

The president’s reception in Buenos Aires seemed to hint at a diminished status. When Xi arrived earlier in the day, he was greeted with a red carpet and a military band. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman had been given the red carpet but no band. Yet, as Trump was met by a small delegation of dignitaries, for whatever reason, he was afforded neither honor.

On Friday, before an early-morning meeting with Argentinian President Mauricio Macri, Trump fired off a two-tweet thread about the Mueller investigation.

Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union and a close ally of Trump, said that the president won't be affected by the latest turn in Mueller's investigation of his ties to Russia.

"A long time ago, President Trump realized the awful truth of what he is facing with the Mueller probe, and he's able to deal with that and the other responsibilities of being president at the same time," Schlapp said.

Still, whatever the cause of his decision to scrap the long-discussed face-to-face with Putin, it's clear Trump is devoting more time to Mueller and less time to foreign leaders than originally planned. The White House announced Thursday that his scheduled meetings with Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan and South Korean leader Moon Jae-in would be reduced to informal pull-asides.

And after sending his Friday morning tweets, Trump was late for the 7:05 a.m. local time (5:05 a.m. ET) meeting with Macri.

Trump's schedule Friday currently calls for bilateral sessions with Macri, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and German leader Angela Merkel, the USMCA trade pact signing and a meeting of the full set of G-20 countries.

Still, the big focus of the summit for Trump remains the same: His Saturday dinner date with Xi.

Laura Rosenberger, director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy and a former foreign policy adviser to 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, said Trump's emphasis on tariffs is "playing into Xi's hands" by "making the whole of the relationship" about that rather than China's broader economic practices and its promotion of technology across the globe.

"What I have not seen from the president or this administration is a real China strategy," Rosenberger said. "Because of that Xi and the Chinese government are running circles around us."

Connolly noted that Trump's past trips have often ended with allies rankled and adversaries emboldened. For example, Trump trashed a G-7 meeting, along with host Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, from Air Force One as he left, while he declared victory after summits with Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

"The only summits he seems to have left feeling good about were with foes," Connolly said. With allies, "he's just left wreckage in his wake — if he can avoid that, I'll settle for that."

The fear among Trump's critics is that the latest developments in the Mueller probe — the focus of many of Trump's recent tweets — will interfere with his ability to stay focused.

"It would take an impressive dexterity to be able to separate the Mueller probe hanging over the president's head from the work that lies ahead domestically and across the globe," said Scott Mulhauser, a Democratic strategist and former chief of staff at the U.S. embassy in Beijing. "So the likelihood that fears, concerns and anger about Mueller bleed into his exchanges with 19 other world leaders is high — and potentially perilous."-------------------Knickers the giant steer is believed to be Australia’s largest cow





Knickers the giant steer is believed to be Australia’s largest cow copied!

Knickers the Friesian steer stands over 6 feet tall and will see out his days on a farm in Western Australia because he is too large for the slaughterhouse.

Read More-------------------Weird News: Strange, Odd & Unusual News Stories - NBC News





Video

Why we eat when we’re not hungry-------------------Twitter says account with 1 million followers was Putin impostor





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By David Ingram

Twitter on Wednesday suspended an account that had accumulated 1 million followers and that the company said falsely claimed to be an official, English-language account of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Twitter said the page, using the handle @putinRF_eng, was an impersonation. The social networking service said it suspended the account after a report from Russian government officials.

“We suspended @putinRF_eng for impersonation based on a valid report we received from Russian officials,” Twitter said from one of the company’s verified accounts. The service frowns upon accounts “portraying another person in a confusing or deceptive manner.”

Operating since 2012, the account had said since since at least 2013 that it was official, according to versions kept by the Internet Archive. An archived version from this month showed the account had just over 1 million followers.

Some Twitter users who noted the suspension on Wednesday, apparently believed the account to be official.

It was not immediately clear who was behind the suspended account.

A separate, Russian-language account that also claims to be official was still active late on Wednesday. It has more than 2.2 million followers. Like the English account, the Russian one has no "verified" symbol.-------------------Trump's envoy 'tests all channels' with Afghan Taliban in bid to launch peace talks





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Dan De Luce, Mushtaq Yusufzai, Courtney Kube and Josh Lederman

WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's envoy to Afghanistan is reaching out to many top Taliban figures as he tries to launch peace negotiations to end the war before Trump can simply pull the plug and order U.S. troops home, say foreign diplomats.

U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad has moved at a rapid pace and ventured beyond the official Taliban office in Qatar to meet other members of the insurgency, two foreign diplomats and three former U.S. officials told NBC News.

His outreach included a meeting in the United Arab Emirates with a militant claiming to be an associate of Mullah Yaqub, son of late Taliban leader Mullah Omar and now one of two deputies to the current Taliban leader, Hibatullah Akhundzada, two foreign diplomats said.

Khalilzad is "testing all channels," said one Western diplomat, who was not authorized to speak on the record.

Although it remained unclear if the Taliban member was indeed a representative sent by Yaqub, the meeting reflected how Khalilzad is moving with a sense of urgency and casting a wide net to try to persuade different elements of the insurgency to come to the table to talk peace, former officials said.

Keenly aware that President Trump has expressed impatience with the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan and that time is limited, Khalilzad, who was born in Afghanistan and served as U.S. ambassador to the country after the 9/11 attacks, has pressed ahead with his diplomacy at a swift tempo, former officials and foreign diplomats said.

U.S. officials are operating under the assumption that the president will pull the plug on the current American military mission in Afghanistan well before the U.S. presidential election in November 2020, current and former U.S. officials said.

"Both the Defense Department and State Department are acting as if withdrawal is on the table, sooner or later," said Thomas Jocselyn, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies think tank.

The Trump administration has also sought to force the Taliban to the negotiating table with a massive bombing campaign. This year the number of U.S. bombs dropped on Afghanistan has hit a record high, with more than 5,200 as of September 30.

The State Department declined to divulge details of who Khalilzad met during his travels or what was discussed, but said he will continue to meet "with all interested parties."

"We are not going to provide a read-out of every meeting as Special Representative Khalilzad determines how best to promote a negotiated settlement between the Government of Afghanistan and the Taliban," said a State Department spokesperson, Heidi Hattenbach.

She also said the U.S. envoy has stayed in close communication with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and other Afghan political leaders. In his last trip, his first and last stops were in Kabul, "to ensure President Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah were kept informed of all his upcoming meetings and the subsequent findings from those meetings."

The recent flurry of U.S. diplomacy — and Trump's clear ambivalence about keeping troops in the country — has created friction with Ghani and his allies. Afghan officials in Kabul fear Washington's direct talks with the Taliban could leave them sidelined and that a short timeline could backfire badly.

"Peace talks also must not be driven by superficial deadlines urged by a U.S. administration anxious to be done with the conflict," Nader Nadery, a former senior adviser to President Ghani, wrote in an op-ed in the Washington Post Monday.

The recent meeting with a representative of the son of the Taliban's former leader, if confirmed, would be "a potentially positive development" given Yaqub's senior rank and his reputation for favoring a political settlement, said Johnny Walsh, a former lead adviser on Afghan peace efforts at the State Department.

U.S. special envoy for peace in Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, talks with local reporters at the U.S. embassy in Kabul on Nov. 18, 2018. U.S Embassy / Reuters

"It's worth exploring more of those proposective channels than perhaps we collectively have in the past, because some of them will lead somewhere," Walsh said.

Yaqub's father, Mullah Omar, was the reclusive founder of the hardline Islamist Taliban that ruled the country from 1996-2001 and forged an alliance with Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda. His regime was ousted from power by U.S.-led forces in 2001 for having offered safe haven to Al-Qaeda militants who staged the 9/11 attacks on New York and Washington.

In three days of talks in Qatar earlier this month, Khalilzad met with eight Taliban representatives, including two militants formerly held in Guantanamo, Khairullah Khairkhwa, the former Taliban governor of Herat, and Mohammed Fazl, a former Taliban military chief, Taliban sources told NBC News. Their participation signaled the Taliban's serious interest in holding talks and Fazl in particular is seen as boosting the authority of the Taliban negotiating contingent in Qatar, analysts said.

In his recent visit to Kabul, Khalilzad told reporters that "I remain cautiously optimistic or hopeful given the complexities that exist."

The U.S. envoy also said that the "Taliban are saying that they do not believe that they can succeed militarily."

But an insurgency source rejected Khalilzad's comments, saying his account was overly positive and that the group had not given up on its military prospects.

"We only mentioned that we believe that fighting is not the solution to any problem," a senior Taliban leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told NBC News.

Khalilzad has asked President Ghani and the Taliban to form negotiating teams, stressing that the delegations need to be broadly representative to ensure a successful settlement, foreign diplomats and former officials said. By moving ahead with a series of direct discussions with the Taliban, Khalilzad is effectively putting pressure on Ghani to form a negotiating team without delay, said former U.S. officials familiar with the talks.

Afghan electoral authorities, meanwhile, have raised the possibility of postponing the presidential election scheduled for April next year due to ballot counting problems in last month's parliamentary polls.

In his Kabul meetings, Khalilzad has explored the idea of pushing back the election and its potential benefit to peace talks, an Afghan government official and a former U.S. official said.Under this scenario, an interim government could include a Taliban representative and this possibly could open the way for the Taliban to enter into full-fledged peace negotiations, as it has long maintained that the existing Afghan government and constitution are illegitimate.

Taliban leader Mullah Omar died in 2013. National Counterterrorism Center / Reuters

Khalilzad told reporters in Kabul that it was up to Afghans to decide whether to postpone the elections but he added that it would be ideal to arrive at a peace agreement before the April vote.

Critics have warned that forming an effective interim government could prove impossible given the current Afghan government's deep divisions and frequent dysfunction.

The Afghan official said that Ghani's government is skeptical that the Taliban can deliver on any promises and that Pakistan and other countries that lend support to the insurgents hold the key to any peace deal.

"The Afghan government doesn't think that the Taliban is independent enough to stop the war even if they were to agree to do so in negotiations," the official said. "The only way fighting will stop is if the Pakistanis and other international supporters of the Taliban are involved in the negotiations."

Pakistan — the longtime patron of the Taliban — last month released Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a co-founder of the insurgency, to allow him to take part in any political talks. The move was seen as a welcome initial step by U.S. officials, but it remained unclear if Islamabad was prepared to throw its full weight behind the talks.

Still, former officials said the current peace effort showed more promise than a previous U.S. attempt under President Barack Obama, which was plagued by turf battles inside the administration and ambivalence among military commanders, who favored hammering the Taliban on the battlefield before entering into any serious talks.

"It was seen as a sort of side project that the State Department was running," said Jason Campbell, a former senior official at the Defense Department who worked on Afghanistan policy.

The whole project collapsed in 2013, with then Afghan President Hamid Karzai feeling betrayed by Washington's outreach to the Taliban.

The current talks with the Taliban have been accompanied by a spike in violence in Afghanistan, amid signs that the Taliban have gained strength on the battlefield in recent months. A suicide bombing last week in Kabul claimed more than 50 lives and three U.S. service members were killed Tuesday by a roadside bomb near Ghazni city.

Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanakzai, head of the Taliban's political council in Qatar, and an unidentified representative of the Afghan Taliban movement speak prior to the start of the Second Moscow round of Afghanistan peace settlement talks in Moscow on Nov. 9, 2018. Sergei Chirikov / EPA

In turn, the Pentagon has ramped up a bombing campaign against the Taliban, seeking to keep up military pressure on the insurgents.

As of the end of September, U.S. military aircraft released a record 5,213 weapons over Afghanistan so far this year, surpassing the total for 2017 which stood at 4,361, according to U.S. Central Command.

For their part, the Taliban also have adopted a "fight and talk" strategy, undertaking fresh attacks on towns and cities — including a five-day siege of Ghazni in August — even as their representatives held a series of meetings with U.S. diplomats in Doha.

Analysts and former officials say the Taliban is in a stronger position on the battlefield than at any time since they were ousted from power in 2001.-------------------Ukraine-Russia sea clash: Sea of Azov incident raises tensions — and questions





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Alexander Smith and Yuliya Talmazan

Russian forces shooting at and seizing a neighboring country's vessels, Ukrainian sailors being wounded and detained, and yet another political crisis between Moscow and the West.

There's been no shortage of drama between Russia and Ukraine since Sunday.

A stack of questions remain about what might happen next, and whether the U.S. and its allies have the means — or even the willingness — to influence this tense situation.

What happened?

On Sunday, Russian forces shot at and seized three Ukrainian vessels, injuring as many as six crew members. A total of two dozen sailors were detained at a nearby port.

The Ukrainian vessels were attempting to pass through the Kerch Strait, a narrow artery linking the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. Russia has effectively controlled the strait ever since it annexed Crimea in 2014.

In response, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko declared 30 days of martial law in border areas over what he called a violation of international law. Russia blamed the incident on Ukrainian provocation.

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo joined other Western leaders in pointing the finger squarely at the Kremlin and alleged Russia aggression. Their boss — often accused of being soft on President Vladimir Putin — appeared reluctant to apportion blame.

"We don't like what's happening either way," President Donald Trump told reporters Monday.

Where are the Ukrainian sailors?

The sailors were taken to the Crimean port of Kerch, where local media released a video purporting to show some of the men speaking on camera. They explain they entered Russian territorial waters and received warnings from Russian border control vessels to leave the area.

One of the men said he was aware their actions were "of a provocative nature."

A serviceman guards a military vessel moored in the Sea of Azov port of Mairupol, Ukraine, on Tuesday. Sega Volskii / AFP - Getty Images

The Ukrainian military confirmed on Facebook that the men in the video were its sailors.

However, such videos must be treated with extreme caution because it's not clear what was said before or after these edited extracts, nor whether the sailors were under duress.

The men appear relaxed, but the head of Ukraine's security service, Vasyl Hrytsak warned that they were under "psychological and physical pressure" while in detention.

Both countries disagree on the detainees' legal status.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin called them "prisoners of war." This means they would be protected by the Geneva Convention, which states POWs should be treated humanely, shielded from "public curiosity" and immune from prosecution for taking part in hostilities.

The International Committee of the Red Cross in Ukraine told NBC News it had asked for access to the detainees.

"What's most important now is that those wounded and detained in relation to this situation are treated humanely, that the wounded get an adequate medical care and that the detained crews' members can communicate with their loved ones," ICRC spokeswoman Jana Bauerova said.

Russia, on the other hand, denies the men are POWs. It calls them trespassers who will be "prosecuted in strict accordance with the law," the state-run TASS news agency quoted Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov as saying.

A local court will determine the fate of the sailors but Ukraine's foreign minister suggested the decision would ultimately be in the hands of the Russian president.

"In reality, we clearly understand that the decision can only be made on Putin's level," Klimkin told Ukrainian television. "That’s where our efforts are at."

What does international law say?

Cutting through the claims and counterclaims, the dispute largely boils down to one thing: Crimea.

When Russia and Ukraine were relatively friendly, they shared the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait as part of a 2003 agreement.

That was all fine until 2014, when Russia annexed Crimea. This gave it control of not just one but both sides of the strait.

Although the 2003 agreement still stands in theory, Russia now demands that all vessels, including those from Ukraine, to request permission before they pass through.

In May, it opened the $3.69 billion Crimea Bridge, cementing its grip on this crucial bottleneck. Independent observers have pointed out that the bridge's span is lower than international standards, putting a permanent cap on the size of ship able to enter the Azov.

The move has caused huge delays in recent months, leading to claims Russia is trying to blockade Ukraine's ports and transform the Azov into a de facto Russian lake.

Some Western critics say this is all part of the Kremlin's tactic of "creeping annexation," a ploy to subtly recoup territory from its old Soviet allies.

Russia has been adamant its actions in the area are legally justified, and points out Ukraine has detained one of its own ships in this region.

It was against this backdrop that Russia claimed the three Ukrainian ships had entered its waters Sunday, ignoring verbal cautions and even warning shots.

Coordinates offered by officials and analysts on both sides suggest the vessels had been in Crimean waters, which Russia regards as its "territorial sea."

Access to the Ukrainian port of Berdyansk, on the Sea of Azov, has been restricted by Russia's control of the Kerch Strait. Evgeniy Maloletka / AP

The problem with this is that most countries in the world, including the U.S. and almost all of Europe, say Russia's annexation of Crimea is an illegal occupation. They don't recognize these waters as Russian, and therefore say Moscow has no grounds to stop ships, let alone fire at them.

On this fundamental principle alone Russia's actions Sunday broke international law, according to Valentin Schatz, research associate in public international law at Germany's University of Hamburg.

He said that on a practical level, it could be argued Ukrainian ships have an obligation to notify Russian authorities and cooperate as they pass through the strait. Ukraine says it did this; Russia says that's not true.

In any case, Ukraine insists that its ships fled back out into international waters when they were shot at and seized.

Ukraine publishes maps showing where it claims its three ships were fired at and seized — says it was just inside international waters:https://t.co/HwILLvnQXE pic.twitter.com/Nb8eXIqDuc — Alexander Smith (@AlexanderSmith) November 28, 2018

Even if one were to accept that Crimea is now part of Russia, the Kremlin's legal case for firing at Ukrainian ships is shaky, Schatz added. Using force and detaining foreign warships "may only be used in exceptional circumstances," he said.

While international law is firmly on Ukraine's side, the local reality is different, according to Balázs Jarábik, a nonresident scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

"For Russia the security of the Kerch bridge is the utmost priority, and that requires Russia to minimize the Ukrainian military naval presence," he said.

What might happen next?

Moscow is already embroiled in a conflict in eastern Ukraine, where Russian-backed separatists have been fighting a war against Kiev's troops, a four-year conflict that's claimed more than 10,000 lives.

Rocked by an ailing economy and burdened by Western sanctions, Putin has no desire to open up another front in the conflict, according to the Centre for Eastern Studies, a Warsaw-based think tank.

Instead, the use of force against Ukraine is more likely an attempt to "expose the helplessness of the Ukrainian side" and tighten Russia's newfound grip on the Sea of Azov, four experts based at the Centre for Eastern Studies wrote Monday.

Western leaders have expressed "deep concern" at the events, but it's unclear whether this will translate into concrete action. Ukraine has called on the U.S. and Europe to levy more sanctions on Moscow.

Another option open to them is to provide Ukraine with assistance such as radars and anti-ship missiles, according to Michael Carpenter, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense at the Pentagon.

The U.S. currently has around 200 soldiers stationed as advisers in Ukraine but they are in the west of the country, hundreds of miles from Crimea and fighting in the east.

The crisis has had political implications too. On Monday, Poroshenko gained parliamentary approval to impose martial law in some of the country. Many experts had feared he would use this to postpone March's presidential election as he trails badly in the polls.

He sought to allay these fears by only imposing martial law for 30 days in order to "do away with the pretexts for political speculation."

Ominously, Putin's spokesman hinted that the imposition of martial law may risk "escalating tensions in the conflict-hit region" in the country's east.-------------------Who are France's 'Yellow Jacket' protesters and what do they want?





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Saphora Smith

President Emmanuel Macron is once again finding that the French do not respond well to reform.

Thousands of demonstrators known as "Yellow Jackets" due to their fluorescent garb descended into the streets across France over the weekend to protest planned tax hikes on gas.

In Paris, the rallies turned violent Saturday with blazes set on the world-famous Champs-Élysées avenue while masked protesters waved the French flag. Police responded to skirmishes with water cannons and tear gas. More than 100 people were arrested.

A protester during clashes on the Champs-Elysees in Paris on Saturday. Benoit Tessier / Reuters

The demonstrations started earlier this month and have morphed into a wider rebuke of Macron’s presidency and his attempts at economic reform.

Macron condemned attacks on police officers in a sharply worded tweet, saying there is "no place for this" in France.

What’s happening?

The “Yellow Jacket” activists — named after the neon vests French drivers are obliged to carry in their vehicles in the case of roadside emergencies — want Macron to call off the tax increases.

Motorists have blocked highways across the country since Nov. 17, setting up barricades and deploying conveys of slow-moving trucks.

Around 280,000 protested in the streets across the country that day, with 106,000 people attending rallies on Saturday, according to French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner.

Protesters wearing fluorescent yellow vests face a water cannon fired by police during clashes on the Champs-Elysees on Saturday. Benoit Tessier / Reuters

On Jan. 1, the tax on gasoline will go up by around 12 cents per gallon and on diesel by approximately 28 cents per gallon, according to Transport Minister Elisabeth Borne.

Gas taxes will go up by another 5 cents per gallon by 2020, with diesel jumping an additional 2 cents.

On Monday, gasoline cost around $6.26 per gallon in Paris, while diesel was around $6.28 a gallon.

Macron has so far refused to reconsider the hikes, which he says will help reduce France’s dependence on fossil fuels. By raising the cost of diesel, the French government hopes to convince more people to buy less-polluting vehicles.

Why are people so angry?

While the protests were sparked by the looming increase in fuel prices, experts say they have become an outlet for people to express their discontent with the high cost of living in France and with Macron’s presidency more generally.

A poll published on Friday found that only 26 percent of French people have a favorable opinion of Macron.-------------------In interview, Ukrainian president asks Trump to deliver pointed message to Putin





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Richard Engel and Corky Siemaszko

KIEV, Ukraine — The president of Ukraine has a message that he wants President Donald Trump to personally deliver to Russian President Vladimir Putin at the upcoming G-20 summit in Argentina:

"Please, get out from Ukraine, Mr. Putin," Petro Poroshenko said Tuesday.

Poroshenko made the comments in a one-on-one interview with NBC News, which was conducted two days after Russian forces created an international crisis by attacking and seizing three Ukrainian vessels that were trying to pass through the Kerch Strait, a narrow artery that connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov.

The Ukrainian leader also told NBC News that his country is ready to cooperate with the investigation of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, who spent nearly a decade in Ukraine as a consultant to a pro-Moscow political party.

But asked if the Ukraine has any evidence that Manafort was getting paid directly by the Kremlin, Poroshenko said, "I am not personally connected with the process."

Poroshenko on Monday declared martial law in the provinces bordering Russia and convened his war cabinet after the Russian assault that left six Ukrainian sailors injured and two dozen more detained in a nearby port.

The Russians have effectively controlled the Kerch Strait since they seized the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014.

Poroshenko said his military is ready to defend its country but is counting on the United States to live up to its pledges to support Ukraine.

"I count on the United States," Poroshenko told NBC News. "I count on the United States people."

In the interview, Poroshenko also warned the Russians that Ukraine will not roll over if war comes.

"We will fight for our freedom, we will fight for our democracy, we will fight for our soil," he said. "The Russians will pay a huge price if they attack us."

After the vessels were seized on Sunday, Nikki Haley, the outgoing U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo joined other Western leaders in immediately pointing the finger of blame at the Kremlin and Putin.

But Trump was reluctant to blame the Russian leader.

“We don’t like what’s happening either way,” Trump said on Monday.

Typically when asked about Crimea, Trump has blamed his predecessor Barack Obama for Ukraine's loss of Crimea.

Asked point-blank if he can count on Trump, Poroshenko answered diplomatically: "This is the international obligation of the United States."

Richard Engel reported from Kiev, and Corky Siemaszko from New York City.-------------------Migrants attempt to cross English Channel from France in canoes, dinghies





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Saphora Smith

LONDON — Migrants are attempting the 21-mile journey across the English Channel from France to Britain aboard flimsy inflatable boats, canoes and even water scooters.

Video footage that aired on "Good Morning Britain" Tuesday showed U.K. authorities picking up nine people who had attempted to traverse one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes in a rubber dinghy. Those rescued included four children.

This is the dramatic moment a group of nine migrants were captured using a dingy to cross the English Channel in the middle of the night.



The number of people making the treacherous journey this month has increased by 100, compared to previous months. pic.twitter.com/YPKtgfZD5j — Good Morning Britain (@GMB) November 27, 2018

More than 100 migrants have attempted the crossing in the past three weeks, according to British media reports.

People attempting to reach Britain illegally from France have traditionally hidden themselves in or under trucks traveling by ferry or train through the so-called Chunnel.

But tighter security checks mean that some migrants now see the waterway as an option.

Earlier this month, 48 migrants were rescued in the English Channel in the space of just two days, according to British lawmaker Charlie Elphicke.

“To see this number or brazen attempts to break into Britain, even as winter sets in, is unprecedented and deeply concerning,” Elphicke wrote in a newsletter to his constituents. “These people are desperate to reach our shores — and they will keep trying by any means possible.”

Three migrants attempting to cross the English Channel to reach Britain drift in an inflatable canoe off Calais, France, in August. They were later rescued by French authorities. AFP/Getty Images file

Elphicke, who is a member of the ruling Conservatives, called on British and French authorities to do more to deter people from attempting the crossing.

Britain's interior ministry — which is known as the Home Office — says it has stepped up deployments of patrol vessels along the southeast coast of England.

Some migrants told NBC News’ British partner ITV News that they knew of other people who had arrived in the U.K. by swimming and then catching hold of passing ferries.

“I saw a lot of people who broke a hand or an elbow or they were ill after they got cold,” one said.

Cargo ships travel in the English Channel. Toby Melville / Reuters file

In one incident earlier this month, a group of 17 migrants stole a fishing boat from a French port and sailed across the English Channel.

Last week, two men were jailed for eight years for smuggling people into the U.K. in small boats.

And in September, seven members of an organized crime group who tried to use small boats and a water scooter to smuggle people into the U.K. were jailed for a total of 48 years and three months.-------------------Inside the final frantic moments before the Lion Air crash





Inside the final frantic moments before the Lion Air crash copied!

New data from one of the plane’s black boxes indicated the pilots were in a dramatic fight with the plane’s computer, trying to keep the nose up, going up and down more than two dozen times, before finally crashing.

Read More-------------------Russian 'creeping annexation' hits Ukraine in Sea of Azov





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Alexander Smith and Yuliya Talmazan

Tensions in the Sea of Azov have been simmering for months and this weekend its waters came to the boil.

Russian ships opened fire at three Ukrainian naval vessels Sunday after they attempted to enter the sea.

Ukrainian media reported that 23 crew members were detained, including six who were injured, and the vessels seized.

Kiev's navy is hugely outgunned and outnumbered by Moscow. Ukraine responded by putting its forces on high alert.

Some Western experts say the Kremlin's tactics in the Sea of Azov are straight out of the Kremlin playbook.

Analysts have been warning for months that the Azov, which is just under half the size of Lake Superior, is the latest example of Russia carrying out "creeping annexation" — where borders are subtly shifted to take territory, or in this case waters, from former Soviet allies.

The sea is technically shared by Ukraine and Russia as part of a 2003 agreement. That was before Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, a move denounced by the U.S. and its European allies as an illegal occupation.

This gave Moscow control of the Kerch Strait, the only maritime entrance into the Sea of Azov, which it literally cemented by opening a huge, low-lying bridge in May. Ukraine lost many of its naval ships when Crimea was annexed.

Ukraine has accused Russia of using this chokepoint to delay and block shipping. It also says Russia has been building up its naval presence there. Russia has countered by saying their actions are permitted under the terms of the 2003 treaty. The Kremlin says any additional ships its brought into the region are only there to guard the new bridge against attacks.

Birds fly past the road-and-rail bridge which crosses the Kerch Straight and connects the Russian mainland with the Crimean Peninsula early Monday. Pavel Rebrov / Reuters

Cutting off Ukraine’s access to these waters would isolate half of the country's coastline, including the economically important port city of Mariupol, and effectively turn the Sea of Azov into a Russian-controlled lake.

"Russia sees the Sea of Azov as an area where it can impose huge pressure on Ukraine," said Michael Carpenter, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense at the Pentagon.

Maxim Tucker, an expert on Ukraine with the Open Society Foundations, said the Sea of Azov incident represents a "dramatic" escalation.

"It is the first time the Russian military has openly fired on the Ukrainian military and claimed responsibility for it," he told NBC News.

In the east of the country, Ukrainian forces are still fighting Russian-backed separatists in a four-year conflict that has claimed more than 10,000 lives.

Michael McFaul, a former U.S. ambassador to Moscow, wrote in Foreign Affairs magazine this summer that "no theater in the fight to contain Russia is more important than Ukraine."

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko called Sunday's incident "a brutal violation of international law" and demanded the sailors' release.

'Military hysteria'

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Monday called the situation "military hysteria" and accused the Ukrainian government of trying to score political points ahead of presidential elections in March.

Russian state media echoed the government's statement that Sunday's incident was a "provocation" by Ukraine. Its FSB security service, which guards the strait, said it was not notified that the small Ukrainian flotilla would try to pass through, and that the ships were maneuvering dangerously inside its waters.

But the explanation by President Vladimir Putin's government runs into several problems, according to Valentin Schatz, a research associate in public international law at Germany's University of Hamburg.

He said under the 2003 agreement, Ukraine "did not need Russian permission" to pass through the Kerch Strait. However, it could be argued it had an obligation to notify and cooperate with the Russian authorities controlling it, Schatz added.

Ukraine said it informed Russia; Russia denies this. If Ukraine is correct then blocking its ships' passage was "clearly illegal," Schatz said.

The three Ukrainian ships docked in Kerch, Crimea, on Monday. AP

The use of force as a means to protect coastline can only be used in "exceptional circumstances" under international law, he said, and "foreign warships cannot be detained for trying to pass through a strait."

In any case, if the Russian objection was that the Ukrainian ships were in Crimean waters, Russia's annexation of that peninsula is not recognized under international law, "rendering any Russian enforcement action illegal per se," he said.

Kurt Volker, Washington's special representative for Ukraine who previously served as U.S. ambassador to NATO, also questioned Moscow's account of Sunday's incident.

Russia rams Ukrainian vessel peacefully traveling toward a Ukrainian port. Russia seizes ships and crew and then accuses Ukraine of provocation??? — Kurt Volker (@SpecRepUkraine) November 26, 2018

Open Society Foundations' Tucker described the sea clash as "the latest episode in Putin's aggressive, expansionist military doctrine, which, ever since he ordered tanks into Chechnya in 1999, has sought to distract from the lack of any meaningful domestic reform."

Martial law

Some experts said that both Poroshenko and Putin might find the situation useful.

On Monday, Poroshenko signed a draft declaration imposing martial law until January, sending it to parliament, which approved it later in the day.

Poroshenko faces an election in four months and is behind in the polls. Martial law could give him the power to postpone this vote, offering up a political lifeline.

Putin's approval ratings have taken a hit as Russians have been feeling the economic pain from sanctions and his government's hugely unpopular decision to raise the retirement age.

"This may be a convenient political tool for both sides," said Matthew Rojansky, director of the Kennan Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a Washington think tank. "Putin could use a patriotic distraction," he added, while "Poroshenko is in really dire straits."

He added: "I can’t help thinking this is the real story here, and the onus will be on Ukraine’s frail democratic institutions to resist essentially a power grab by the president himself."

Yevhen Filindash, a Kiev-based independent political analyst and former member of Ukrainian parliament, pointed out that Ukraine did not impose martial law after the annexation of Crimea, nor when fighting broke out in the east.

"It’s quite transparent," he said. "They don’t want the election because they know they are going to lose."-------------------Six pygmy killer whales refloated from Rarawa Beach on New Zealand’s North Island





Six pygmy killer whales refloated from Rarawa Beach on New Zealand’s North Island copied!

Six pygmy killer whales were hauled back into the ocean after becoming beached on New Zealand’s North Island coast.

Read More-------------------London-based artist Slinkachu places miniature characters in everyday settings





London-based artist Slinkachu places miniature characters in everyday settings copied!

London-based artist Slinkachu has been called “the god of small things” for his ability to create hidden narratives in plain sight.

Read More-------------------Europe: Breaking News, Photos & Videos on Europe





Tiziana Fabi / AFP - Getty Images

Pope Francis says he's worried about homosexuality in the priesthood-------------------Turkey's Erdogan targets inflation by hunting stockpiled onions





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Alastair Jamieson

It’s enough to bring tears to the eyes of an economist.

Turkey’s government is hunting for onions as part of efforts to fight crippling inflation, blaming unauthorized stockpiles for pushing up prices for shoppers.

The country is in the grip of an economic crisis driven by a weakened currency, soaring debt, and a rift with the U.S. that saw President Donald Trump impose new trade tariffs.

Prices for everyday goods have soared in the past year, at one point threatening to derail strongman Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s bid for re-election as president.

The annual rate of inflation surged to 25 percent in September — the highest in 15 years — while the Turkish lira has lost nearly 40 percent of its value. A typical bag of onions costing the equivalent of 50 cents in Izmir last month now costs $1, Sol Haber reported, and is on course to sell as much as $2 by the end of the year.

Family affair: Finance Minister Berat Albayrak is also Erdogan's son-in-law. Emin Sansar/Anadolu Agency / Getty Images

However, Erdogan has largely resisted pressure to raise interest rates, hoping instead for continued growth driven by government-sponsored grand construction projects such as highways, bridges, mosques and a glittering new airport for Istanbul.

In another break with economic convention, Finance Minister Berat Albayrak has ordered inspectors to search Turkey’s agricultural areas to stop wholesalers hoarding produce to force up prices.

“We will not allow stockpiling,” announced Albayrak, who is also Erdogan’s son-in-law.

“Nobody has the right to sell expensive products to my citizens,” Erdogan added, according to media reports including channel TR724.

On Thursday, municipal officials in the southeastern town of Mardin found 30 tons of onions in a warehouse and announced legal action against the facility’s owner.

Mardin’de bir depoda 30 ton soğan ele geçirildi https://t.co/AfZwjdwyLq pic.twitter.com/2VNigMSG7K — Star Gazetesi 🇹🇷 (@stargazete) November 22, 2018

The discovery was reported extensively by government-aligned media outlets, but was met with derision on social media where many mocked the onion hunt as a pointless distraction from the country’s economic crisis.

“Free the onions!” wrote economist Alaattin Aktas, who pointed out that the cooking staple only accounted for 0.221 percent of Turkey’s official consumer price inflation.

“Arrest the onion smugglers!” joked another user.

“We used to read news about guns or heroin. Now we are uncovering vegetables,” said another.

“After harvest, an onion must be put in storage,” reporter Ali Ekber Yıldırım wrote. “If it is not, there is a problem,” he said, because the produce will rot. “When will this country’s ignorance about agriculture end?”

Another Twitter user censored the image of the seized onions, covering the bags with black bars.

Soğanların yaşı küçük olduğundan, böyle yayınlanması daha uygun olurdu(!) pic.twitter.com/0jFD3QkUO8 — Gergin ΛdΛm (@kafalog) November 22, 2018

"Since the onions are young, we must protect their identity!" they joked.-------------------Could Brexit deal be saved by market panic similar to 2008 Wall Street bailout?





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Alastair Jamieson

LONDON — British Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday began the near-impossible task of selling her Brexit deal to lawmakers amid widespread predictions that it will be defeated in a parliamentary vote.

She faces what the Daily Mail newspaper called a “frantic fortnight” in which to turn the tide of opposition to the draft divorce agreement struck with her European Union counterparts.

As Britain enters its Brexit endgame — it is due to leave the E.U. in 123 days, on March 29 — there has been speculation that only a stock market panic over rejection of her deal could persuade lawmakers to back it in a vote, slated for Dec. 12. A deal is needed in order to keep goods moving across borders that are open under European Union rules, but which will close when Britain pulls out of the trading bloc.

Brexit-watchers are calling it the “TARP scenario” in reference to President George W. Bush’s October 2008 Wall Street bailout; the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program was rejected by Congress, prompting a huge slide in stocks that threatened total economic collapse until Capitol Hill reversed its opposition.

Hidden under TARP?

Business leaders have repeatedly warned that a “no-deal Brexit,” in which Britain and Europe do not agree on their future relationship, will cause chaos at border points and cripple supply chains. Some government officials are preparing contingency plans to stockpile medicines and other imports while highways leading to customs posts would be turned into miles-long parking lots.

I have now been fingered by @Peston and @EdConwaySky as the originator of the TARP theory of Brexit (markets tank when deal gets voted down, tweaks get made, it passes second time). Just to be very clear - this was a prediction not a recommendation! https://t.co/LKsIboaSMI — Rupert Harrison (@rbrharrison) November 21, 2018

Despite this looming crisis, many lawmakers, including pro-Brexit members of May’s own Conservative party, believe her proposed deal would be even worse because it surrenders too many political controls to Brussels during a post-E.U. transition period.

This spurred some policy wonks to float the idea that lawmakers could be forced to set aside their opposition to May’s plan if financial markets are spooked by a potential no-deal Brexit.

The “TARP scenario” for Brexit was attributed to former government economic adviser Rupert Harrison, who said it was a “prediction not a recommendation.”

However, a number of commentators have identified significant differences between May’s Brexit predicament and the Wall Street bailout.

Bush’s plan enjoyed bipartisan support from both 2008 presidential nominees, Sen. John McCain and then-Sen. Barack Obama, whereas May is so politically isolated that she barely has the support of her own Cabinet ministers.

Theresa's Frantic Fortnight. May begins battle to sell her Brexit vision toady, as Hunt admits Government could collapse if MPs reject the deal - @JasonGroves1 @David_Churchill#frontpagestoday #UK #DailyMail pic.twitter.com/fYJ5CmgWci — Front Pages Today (@ukpapers) November 26, 2018

Perhaps more fundamentally, the financial markets can only be spooked by surprises, whereas a no-deal Brexit has been long floated as a possible outcome.

“In 2008, traders mostly thought that TARP would probably pass,” former trader Matt Singh wrote for right-leaning CapX. “But it’s safe to say that if almost every pundit in the traditional media and social media thinks that there is little chance of the Commons passing the bill at the first attempt, then this is not something that has escaped traders’ attention, and their expectations will be set accordingly.”

BBC policy editor Chris Cook noted, “Counting on TARP makes it unlikely to happen.”

And while TARP was an urgent measure required to prevent an overnight financial disaster, Brexit is a political crisis that has been in the pipeline since the June 2016 referendum result.

The British pound has weakened on currency markets since the vote, mostly because of political uncertainty, but stock prices have been more fluid.

A Brexit vote defeat “may have some economic (and therefore market) impact, but it’s not as immediate as banks potentially running out of money,” said Singh.

Another key difference is that Brexit was driven by voter choice in a campaign that emphasized a return to British sovereignty in place of decision-making in Brussels.

“Brexit was billed by its proponents as being a moment of freedom,” said ITV Political Editor Robert Peston. “If a Brexit deal … were to be passed because of fear that otherwise the country would be punished by international investors, by big capital, this would be rich and fertile territory for extremists and populists to exploit.”

What happens next?

May said Sunday that the House of Commons vote on the deal — comprising the Withdrawal Agreement and the Political Declaration of future E.U.-U.K. relations — will take place before the Christmas recess and would be one of the most significant votes “for many years.”

The opposition Labour Party has already indicated it will vote against her, while members of small Democratic Unionist Party, who had previously been propping up her minority government, have withdrawn their support.

Facing such widespread opposition in Westminster, May is appealing directly to the public to get behind the deal — writing an open letter to voters this weekend and raising the possibility of a TV debate.

She has made it clear that her deal is the only option on the table, although there are growing calls for a second referendum now that the terms of Brexit are known.

After Brexit, Britain will “begin a new chapter in our national life,” May wrote. “I want that to be a moment of renewal and reconciliation for our whole country. To do that, we need to get on with Brexit now by getting behind this deal.”

If May wins, the deal goes to the European Parliament in January for final approval.-------------------Russia attacks, seizes Ukrainian vessels in Black Sea off Crimea





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

/ Updated By Alex Johnson

Ukraine convened an emergency meeting of what it called its war cabinet on Sunday after it accused Russia of having fired on three of its vessels in the Black Sea, injuring at least six sailors.

Russia's Federal Security Service, or FSB, confirmed that it had seized what it called three Ukrainian "warships," saying they had trespassed into Russian territorial waters. It said that "weapons were used to force the Ukrainian warships to stop" and that three Ukrainian service members were treated for minor injuries, TASS, the official Russian news agency, reported Sunday night.

The Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Ministry said it had mobilized all naval personnel and had sent all of its ships to sea after what it described as two gunboats and a tugboat came under attack off the coast of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014.

Oleksii Makeiev, political director of Ukraine's Foreign Affairs Ministry, called the incident an act of "warmongering" that "undermines security of the whole region." The country’s National Security and Defense Council, of which President Petro Poroshenko is chairman, approved a proposal to introduce martial law for 60 days, Poroshenko's office said early Monday.

"We have all irrefutable evidence that this aggression, this attack on the Ukrainian navy's warships, was not a mistake, not an accident, but a deliberate action," Poroshenko said.

The United Nations scheduled an emergency meeting of the Security Council for Monday morning, said Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N.

Russia's seizure of the naval vessels would represent an escalation of tensions that flared a few hours earlier, when it blocked all traffic under the Crimean Bridge into the Kerch Strait — the only passage into the Azov Sea — because of what it said was an approach of Ukrainian vessels, TASS said.

The FSB said Ukraine failed to notify Russia that its ships were planning to use the strait, a contention that Ukraine denied. While both Ukraine and Russia have rights to the sea under a 2003 treaty, Russia controls both sides of the strait.

"The vessels are carrying out dangerous maneuvers and are disobeying the Russian authorities' demands," the FSB's Border Service said in a statement. "The Border Service is taking all steps to ensure security of navigation and regulation of maritime traffic in the waters of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait."

The Ukrainian government called the Russian actions "an act of aggression aimed at deliberately escalating the situation in the waters of the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait."

"We appeal to the whole pro-Ukrainian coalition: we must stand united!" Poroshenko said Sunday on Twitter.

The European Union said that it expected Russia "to restore freedom of passage at the Kerch strait" and that it urged "all to act with utmost restraint to de-escalate the situation immediately."

"The E.U. does not and will not recognize the illegal annexation of the Crimean peninsula by Russia" in 2014, the 28-country bloc said in a statement.

Russia's Foreign Ministry responded in a statement: "Russia regrets that Kiev's confrontational policy of destabilizing Russian-Ukrainian relations has been supported by some countries, including E.U. members."

It added: "The Russian Federation is warning everyone that the responsibility for possible further aggravation of the situation in the Azov Sea-Kerch water area lies with Ukraine and the states that support its provocative actions."

Kurt Volker, Washington's special representative for Ukraine who previously served as U.S. ambassador to NATO, questioned Moscow's account of the incident.

Russia rams Ukrainian vessel peacefully traveling toward a Ukrainian port. Russia seizes ships and crew and then accuses Ukraine of provocation??? — Kurt Volker (@SpecRepUkraine) November 26, 2018

NATO said it was closely monitoring the developments and called for restraint.

"NATO fully supports Ukraine's sovereignty and its territorial integrity, including its navigational rights in its territorial waters," said Oana Lungescu, a NATO spokeswoman. "We call on Russia to ensure unhindered access to Ukrainian ports in the Azov Sea, in accordance with international law."

The United States and Russia clashed in July after the White House rejected Russian President Vladimir Putin's proposal to organize an independence referendum in separatist-leaning eastern Ukraine.-------------------British Museum's Easter Island statue reignites debate about colonial plundering





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Alexander Smith

LONDON — As swarms of tourists jostle for position beneath this towering statue, its hollow eyes reveal little about its painful past.

The 7-foot-9-inch basalt figure was carved perhaps 800 years ago on Easter Island, one of the most remote places on earth.

In 1868, it was plundered by a British naval ship, sailed 11,000 miles around the world and handed to Queen Victoria.

The monarch gave it to London's British Museum, where it still stands 150 years later, scowling in the background of a thousand selfies.

Tourists love it, but the Rapa Nui people of Easter Island are begging the museum to return the statue.

Their ancestors named it Hoa Hakananai'a, or "stolen friend" according to one translation, and they believe it contains the spirits of their deified relatives.

"We came here, but we are just the body. You, the England people, have our soul," said Tarita Alarcón Rapu, the governor of Easter Island, during a visit to the British Museum this week.

Speaking through tears on the museum's grand steps, she pleaded for even a brief loan of the sacred artifact.

"You have kept him for 150 years," she said. "Just give us some months and we can have it there."

Tarita Alarcon Rapu gives a press conference outside the British Museum on Tuesday. Adrian Dennis / AFP - Getty Images

Hoa Hakananai'a is one of 1,000 iconic "moai" statues carved on Easter Island, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that's now part of Chile.

It's also one of countless controversial objects displayed in European museums that were taken or outright looted from abroad — in Britain's case as it expanded its empire in the 1800s.

Many of the countries are now asking for the artifacts to be returned, a trend forcing the United Kingdom to face up to the most violent days of its colonial history.

"I had no idea about this statue's backstory," said one tourist, Avijit Dasgupta, 33, who was visiting London from Bangladesh last week.

He had just been snapping photographs of Hoa Hakananai'a, which has been placed opposite the museum's gift shop. After learning of its turbulent past — not explained anywhere in the exhibit — he changed his mind.

The Hoa Hakananai'a sculpture is popular with visitors to the British Museum in London. Neil Hall / EPA

"Now I know, I'm sure that this should be returned to the ancestors of the people who created it," he said.

Another museumgoer, Margaret Robertson, 70, was aware of the controversy but had a different view.

"For me personally, which is a bit selfish, I like to experience their culture," she said. "We went on a cruise last year but we didn't make it to Easter Island. This statue means I can see it here instead."

Britain is far from alone in this debate.

France has tens of thousands of items taken from sub-Saharan Africa. A government-commissioned report is later this month expected to recommend they all be returned to countries that want them.

In the U.S., Native American groups have for decades requested the return of items taken while tribes were being moved onto reservations at the turn of the last century.

The "Moai" statues on Easter Island, which is situated 2,000 miles west of Chile. Carlos Barria file / Reuters

Unlike in Europe, however, Congress passed two laws in 1989 and 1990 compelling museums and other collections to give back Native American items upon request.

That's not to say the British Museum hasn't given back some items — but these have only been loans.

"The British Museum has, historically, been extremely reluctant to repatriate objects," said Alice A. Procter, a historian who gives "Uncomfortable Art Tours" revealing the controversial backgrounds of displayed items. "They make life very, very difficult for anyone claiming cultural heritage."

This tension was directly addressed in the film "Black Panther," when Erik Killmonger, played by Michael B. Jordan, steals a war-hammer on display at the "The Museum of Great Britain" — a thinly veiled reference to the British Museum. As he explains, it was stolen from the imagined African nation of Wakanda.

Michael B. Jordan playing Erik Killmonger in "Black Panther." Marvel Studios

"How do you think your ancestors got these?" Killmonger asks the museum director. "Do you think they paid a fair price? Or did they take it like they took everything else?"

The Wakandan war-hammer echos the story of the real-life Benin Bronzes. In 1897, when European powers were busy carving up Africa, British forces attacked, burned and looted Benin City, an ancient and relatively advanced citadel in modern-day Nigeria.

The "massacre of Benin" brought to an end the Kingdom of Benin, and the British troops returned with a series of ornate bronze plaques that, like Hoa Hakananai’a, are on display at the British Museum today.

The museum has discussed a possible loan with the Nigerian government — but a permanent return has never been on the table.

More infamous still are the Elgin Marbles, statues that once decorated the Parthenon temple in ancient Athens 2,500 years ago.

The Elgin Marbles from the Parthenon are on display at the British Museum. Edwin Remsberg / VWPics via AP Images file

In the early 1800s, Lord Elgin gained permission from the Ottoman Empire, where he served as British ambassador, to remove the marble statues, around half of which had been damaged by neglect and war.

The Greeks disagree. They see the Ottomans of the time as occupiers and have for decades lobbied the U.K. for the artifacts' return.

So how does the British Museum justify hanging onto these items?

Spokeswoman Hannah Boulton accepts that, at its heart, this argument is about weighing up two things: the museum's mission statement to educate the public and preserve ancient history, and those cultures' right to have their artifacts back.

"We believe that there is great value in presenting objects from across the world," Boulton said, adding that Hoa Hakananai'a is "among the most popular and most photographed exhibits with our 6 million visitors each year."

Hoa Hakananai'a. Peter Nicholls / Reuters

Others point to what can happen when items are left in less secure locations. In 2015, ISIS used bulldozers, power tools and explosives to damage and destroy several archaeological sites, including parts of the ancient city of Palmyra. UNESCO called it "an immense loss for the Syrian people and for humanity."

This week, the British Museum "had a warm, friendly and open conversation" with the Rapa Nui delegation and said "it was very helpful to gain a better understanding of Hoa Hakananai'a's significance," Boulton said. But there has been no offer of its return, on loan or otherwise.

Activists say that the reason this debate has become so difficult to navigate is that Britain has not faced up to the evils committed during its age of empire.

More than 40 percent of Brits say they are proud of their country's history of colonialism, according to a survey in 2016 by the U.K. pollster YouGov.

This may owe more to ignorance more than malice. Critics say British schools fails to teach the true impact their country had during that period. The history Britain teaches itself is one of victorious campaigns in World War I and II, rather than the earlier atrocities committed in the name of the empire.

"The museum conversation is only the first part of a much, much bigger debate in reconsidering the way that colonial history is represented and discussed in the U.K.," said Procter, the historian.

"Museums are very much at the forefront of that because of the repatriation debate, and as part of that, they have a duty to engage and adapt their policies to suit the time," she added.-------------------Norway calling out Russia's jamming shows European policy shift





Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

By Alexander Smith

The accusation was direct and unflinching: Russian forces stationed in the Arctic Circle had been jamming NATO's GPS signals during the alliance's largest military exercise since the Cold War.

The alleged incident happened during Trident Juncture, a huge, two-week drill hosted in Norway last month, involving 50,000 personnel from 31 countries.

Last week Norway revealed that Russian forces stationed in the nearby Kola Peninsula had been jamming their GPS signals during the exercise. Finland summoned the Russian ambassador and NATO called it "dangerous, disruptive and irresponsible."

Russia denies the allegations. And experts say attempting to disrupt a military exercise on its doorstep is nothing new.

But the incident was notable because it showed how Washington's European allies are changing their tactics to deal with Moscow's alleged misdeeds.

Norway revealed that during the Trident Juncture exercise, Russian forces stationed in the nearby Kola Peninsula had been jamming their GPS signals. Jonathan Nackstrand / AFP - Getty Images file

Before, Western countries may have tried to address Russia's actions in closed diplomatic sessions. Now they are openly reprimanding them.

NATO and its partner states have shifted to a "public engagement campaign, which basically calls people out for cyber attacks, jamming and disruptive behavior to try and deter and discourage it," said Jack Watling, a research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), a think tank based in London.

This change was not an official one; there was no speech, written statement or policy document signalling that allies were going to take a different approach.

But analysts say that it's been clear nonetheless; a demonstrable change of tactic after the ex-spy Sergei Skripal was poisoned — allegedly on Kremlin orders — on British soil in March this year.

"There is a wider policy shift to call out Russia because of the increased intensity of challenges," ranging from military threats and spying to hacking and signal jamming, according to Gustav Gressel, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations think tank. "That policy-shift is shared by most NATO countries."

The Europeans now feel that "it does not make sense to address these issues in closed diplomatic sessions with Russia, as Russian diplomats would only deny and outright lie," Gressel added.

With Skripal, U.K. authorities laid out in painstaking detail how two men they identified as agents with Russia's military intelligence agency, commonly known by its old acronym, the GRU, had traveled to the English city of Salisbury and poisoned their target.

Two men who used the aliases of Ruslan Boshirov, left, and Alexander Petrov, right, were accused of poisoning a former Russian spy and his daughter in Salisbury, England. Metropolitan Police / EPA

Six months of meticulous investigation allowed British police to trace the route they had taken, right down to the flights they boarded, the trains they rode and the hotels where they stayed.

That incident appeared to signal that the gloves were off.

In April, Dutch authorities busted an alleged GRU plot to hack into the headquarters of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in the Hague.

When they revealed the sting months later, as with the Skripal case, their investigators showed in forensic detail how the four men had traveled from Moscow to the Netherlands — right down to their taxi receipts.

Hours before this information was made public, back in early October, the British government, backed by New Zealand and Australia, again named and shamed the GRU as being behind a number of "indiscriminate and reckless cyber attacks targeting political institutions, businesses, media and sport" around the world.

The list published by the U.K. government ranged from attacks on the World Anti-Doping Agency in 2016 to the now-infamous hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the same year.

A triple whammy was capped off on the same day when the Department of Justice announced criminal charges against seven Russian military intelligence officers.

In the U.S., intelligence officials have pointed the finger squarely at Russian hacking since 2016. Europe has also called out Russia in the past, such as during the Dutch-led investigation that found Moscow responsible for downing Malaysia Airlines MH17 in July 2014.

U.S. Marines take part in an exercise to capture an airfield as part of the Trident Juncture 2018 near the town of Oppdal, Norway. Jonathan Nackstrand / AFP - Getty Images

But in recent months we're seeing something more coordinated, asserts Tate Nurkin, a military analyst and founder of the defense consultancy OTH Intelligence Group.

"I suspect this isn't the first time that Western actors have noticed Russian activities of a disruptive nature during exercises," Nurkin said. The difference, he added, is that previously we didn't hear about it.

This is all designed to put pressure on the Kremlin and associated individuals, making them think twice before engaging in behavior the U.S. and Europe are likely to punish, said Watling, the RUSI researcher.

"Are they prepared to live the rest of their lives in Russia? Are they prepared to not engage in the international financial system?" Watling said they should be asking themselves.

"The Russians for a very long time have relied on deniability as a way of doing things that otherwise wouldn't be acceptable," he said.

"Now the message is: Look, we know what you're doing, and it's not okay."-------------------Paris assesses injuries, damage after worst riot in decade






A man rides his bicycle past by charred cars, near the Arc de Triomphe, in Paris, Sunday. A protest against rising taxes and the high cost of living turned into a riot in the French capital Saturday, as activists caused widespread damage and tagged the Arc de Triomphe with multi-colored graffiti during clashes with police. (Kamil Zihnioglu/Associated Press)

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron asked for an evaluation of possible protest security measures Sunday, a day after a Paris demonstration against increased taxes and living costs devolved into France’s worst urban riot in a decade.

Hours after he flew back to the French capital from the G-20 summit in Argentina, Macron held an emergency meeting at the Elysee presidential palace while crews worked to remove charred cars, broken glass and graffiti from the famed Champs-Elysees Avenue and other top Paris sites.

Paris police said 133 people were injured, including 23 police officers, as crowds trashed the streets of the capital Saturday. Officers fired tear gas and used water cannon to tamp down the violence as protesters torched cars, smashed windows, looted stores and tagged the Arc de Triomphe with spray paint.

Paris police Prefect Michel Delpuech said some officers described encountering “unprecedented” violence, including protesters using hammers, gardening tools, bolts, aerosol cans as well as rocks in physical confrontations.

Some radical far-right and far-left activists were involved in the riot, as well as a “great number” of protesters wearing yellow jackets, Delpuech said. The fluorescent jackets, which French motorists are required to have in their cars for emergencies, are an emblem of a grassroots citizens’ movement protesting fuel taxes.

Fires were started at six buildings and more than 130 makeshift barricades and 112 vehicles were torched, Delpuech said.

Paris prosecutor Remy Heitz said 378 people remained in police custody as of Sunday evening, 33 of them minors.

Earlier Sunday, Macron visited the Arc de Triomphe, which had damaged statues as well as graffiti. One slogan on the famed war memorial read: “Yellow jackets will triumph.” He then headed to a nearby avenue where activists battled police on Saturday to meet with firefighters, police officers and restaurant owners.

At the security meeting, the French leader asked his interior minister to consider making “adaptations” to security procedures to try to contain ongoing protests sparked by rising fuel taxes, Macron’s office said in a statement.

Macron also asked Prime Minister Edouard Philippe to meet with the heads of France’s major political parties and representatives from the grassroots movement behind the protests.

Plans for an earlier meeting between the prime minister and representatives of the movement collapsed last week after a request to broadcast the talks live was rejected.

It was the third straight weekend of clashes in Paris involving activists dressed in the yellow vests of the new protest movement. The grassroots protests began Nov. 17 with motorists upset over a fuel tax hike, but have grown to encompass a range of demands and complaints that Macron’s government does not care about the problems of ordinary people.

The scene in Paris contrasted sharply with protests elsewhere in France that were mostly peaceful.

“It’s difficult to reach the end of the month. People work and pay a lot of taxes and we are fed up,” said Rabah Mendez, a protester who marched peacefully Saturday in Paris.

Speaking in Buenos Aires before he flew home to Paris, Macron said he welcomed the views of protesters but vowed that those who participated in wreaking havoc would be held responsible for their behavior.

“(Violence) has nothing to do with the peaceful expression of a legitimate anger” and “no cause justifies” attacks on police or pillaging stores and burning buildings, Macron said.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------ISIS figure involved in executing U.S. hostage Peter Kassig is killed in airstrike






A senior Islamic State commander involved in the execution of U.S. hostage Peter Kassig was killed in an airstrike in southeastern Syria on Sunday, the U.S. military said.

Col. Sean Ryan, a U.S. military spokesman, identified the Islamic State commander as Abu al-Umarayn and said he was killed in “precision strikes” in a desert area known as Badiya.

The coalition had reason to suspect that Umarayn posed an “immediate threat” to coalition forces in the area, Ryan said in an emailed statement.

Umarayn was also “involved in the killing of American citizen and former U.S. Army Ranger Peter Kassig,” the statement said, and he was linked to or directly involved in executing several other prisoners.

[Peter Kassig: ‘Here, in this land, I have found my calling’]

Kassig, who changed his name to Abdul-Rahman Kassig after he converted to Islam while in Islamic State captivity, was executed at some point in November 2014, a year after he was taken hostage in Syria. His captors released a video showing his decapitated head beside his body but did not include scenes of the execution, unlike with the other hostages they killed.

Umarayn is the first Islamic State figure to be publicly identified as having been involved in Kassig’s execution. He is also the first identified as having been killed in an airstrike since the U.S.-led coalition targeted Mohammed Emwazi, who was known as “Jihadi John,” in November 2015.

Emwazi had been the ringleader of a group of four Islamic State fighters nicknamed “The Beatles” by their captives and was identified as the man who appeared in the video of the execution of American journalist James Foley in August 2014.

The U.S. military did not say how they knew Umarayn was involved in Kassig’s killing or what role he may have played. He was with several other Islamic State members when the strikes were carried out, Ryan said.

In 2006-07, Kassig served in Iraq as a medic with the U.S. Army Rangers. At the time of his capture, he was volunteering as an aid worker in Syria, providing medical help and training to Syrians in areas hit hard by the country’s war. He was on his way to the province of Deir al-Zour in eastern Syria when he was kidnapped by the Islamic State, which is also known as ISIS, near the city of Raqqa.

Read more

Mother of slain journalist James Foley says filmmaker took their story

From Daniel Pearl to James Foley: The modern tactic of Islamist beheadings

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Israeli police recommend charging Netanyahu in third corruption case






Israeli police on Sunday recommended indicting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on charges of bribery and corruption in a third case — this time on suspicion that the leader eased business regulations for the country’s largest telecommunications company in exchange for favorable coverage for him and his wife on a popular news website owned by the firm.

Police have also recommended that media mogul Shaul Elovitch — a close friend of Netanyahu and the majority shareholder in Bezeq, the telecoms firm that owns the news site Walla — be indicted for his alleged role in the affair. Elovitch’s wife, Iris, and Netanyahu’s wife, Sara, were also implicated in the case, known as Case 4000.

While it is now up to Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit to formally prosecute those involved, Sunday’s announcement ramps up pressure on Netanyahu, who faces a raft of legal woes and who, in coming months, could find himself in the throes of early national elections after the departure last month of a key partner in his governing coalition.

[Amid political turmoil, Israeli government holds together. For now.]

His opponents on Sunday called for him to resign as soon as possible in light of the allegations, which follow police recommendations last February to charge him in two other corruption cases, and yet another case against his wife for alleged breach of public trust.

Netanyahu questioned the timing and veracity of Sunday’s announcement, accusing police of leaking parts of the investigation even before any conclusions were reached.



Shaul Elovitch sits in magistrate court during a hearing in Tel Aviv in February. (Amir Cohen/Reuters)

[Israeli police recommend indictment of Netanyahu on corruption charges]

“Police recommendations have no legal status,” he said in a statement. “Only recently, police recommendations in cases against other public figures were rejected by the relevant authorities. I am certain that after considering the matters the same conclusion will be reached in this case as well.”

Netanyahu reiterated a phrase he has used since the investigations against him were launched more than two years ago — “that there was nothing because there is nothing.”

When police initially said he should be charged, Netanyahu said it was an attempt by his opponents to unseat him through corruption allegations because they couldn’t win at the ballot box. Now he appears to be facing the challenge of both — legal charges and an election.

“The question is what will happen first: Will the attorney general decide to prosecute, or will the government collapse?” said Reuven Hazan, a professor of political science at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. “If there is an election first and Netanyahu wins with everyone knowing about his legal issues, then he can say that despite knowledge of the legal battles, the people still want him.”

If the indictment comes first, it is unclear whether Netanyahu will be able to remain prime minister.

In a statement Sunday, police said they had evidence that from 2014 to 2017, while Netanyahu served as minister of communications as well as prime minister, he intervened with regulators to help Bezeq merge with another large Israeli communications company. In exchange, Elovitch instructed journalists at Walla to provide favorable coverage of the prime minister and his wife, according to the statement.

“Netanyahu and his associates intervened in a blatant and ongoing manner, sometimes even daily, in the content published by the Walla News website and sought to influence the appointment of senior employees (editors and reporters),” police said.

The website was used to promote the prime minister’s personal interests by publishing flattering articles and pictures and removing critical content about him and his family, the police statement said.

Netanyahu’s alleged manipulation of Walla has been widely reported by local media, but last week a fuller exposé on Israel’s Channel 10 featured both former and present employees of the news site describing in detail how stories were changed or completely removed if they were not favorable to the prime minister and his wife.

Avi Gabbay, chairman of the opposition Zionist Union party, called for the prime minister to step down immediately. “A person with such a sickly obsession with what the media says about him must not lead the State of Israel,” he said. “Every day he continues in his position [brings] harm to the citizens of this country.”

In the two other cases in which the police have recommended indictments, Netanyahu is suspected of receiving bribes in exchange for favors.

The first case, referred to as Case 1000, involves gifts of cigars and jewelry bestowed by billionaire benefactors such as ­Israeli-born Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan, whose film credits include “Fight Club” and “Pretty Woman,” and Australian business executive James Packer.

The other case, 2000, involves deals made between Netanyahu and Arnon Mozes, publisher of the popular Israeli daily Yedioth Ahronoth. Information leaked to the Israeli media suggested the agreement would have allowed the prime minister to receive more-favorable coverage from the newspaper if he agreed to weaken the status of rival daily newspaper Israel ­Hayom, owned by U.S. casino magnate Sheldon Adelson.

In November, police announced that Netanyahu was not a suspect in an additional case, 3000, involving the dubious purchase of naval vessels from a German shipbuilder. Indictments were recommended, however, against some of the prime minister’s close associates, including his cousin and attorney David Shimron.

[Netanyahu’s wife charged with misuse of public funds in ‘meals-ordering’ affai r]

Sara Netanyahu is also a suspect in a different corruption case. Last June, she was formally charged by state prosecutors with fraud and breach of public trust for ordering meals to the official prime minister’s residence worth a total of $99,000, even though a full-time chef was employed there. An initial hearing has already been held in that case.

Read more:

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Trump’s uneventful outing at the G-20






Want smart analysis of the most important news in your inbox every weekday along with other global reads, interesting ideas and opinions to know? Sign up for the Today’s WorldView newsletter.

Americans are so accustomed to President Trump upsetting the apple cart on the world stage that it can now seem surprising when a conference or summit goes smoothly.

That’s what happened this weekend in Buenos Aires, where Trump attended the annual Group of 20 summit of industrial nations. He presided over the signing of a new trade pact with Canada and Mexico and agreed to calm his burgeoning trade war with China. He offered pleasantries to world leaders he had previously attacked, shied away from headline-grabbing photo ops with controversial autocrats and signed onto the summit’s pro forma communique — something he conspicuously rejected at the G-7 summit earlier this year.

The storm looming over the White House — the special counsel investigation into the Trump camp’s alleged dealings with the Kremlin seems to be picking up pace — may have contributed to Trump’s relative meekness. So, too, may the concerted efforts of his Argentine hosts and other world powers to avert the discord of previous summits.

En mi último día como Presidente, me siento muy honrado de haber participado en la firma del nuevo Tratado Comercial entre México, Estados Unidos y Canadá. Este día concluye un largo proceso de diálogo y negociación que consolidará la integración económica de América del Norte. pic.twitter.com/bzys5eiVNf — Enrique Peña Nieto (@EPN) November 30, 2018

Negotiations over the communique saw American allies try to win over Trump: Condemnation of “protectionism” was left out of the document, and the United States was allowed to carve out a separate position on climate change, given Trump’s rejection of the Paris accords. Still, the White House’s assent in Argentina was cast a boon for the liberal order Trump has so often pilloried.

“The USA has approved a clear text on multi­lateralism that complies with international rules,” said French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday. “They’ve approved a clear text on trade that has been discussed at length and is very clear on the reforms. They’ve approved a common text on energy matters, and this morning President Trump took the floor in the plenary session to say that even though he did not follow the Paris Accords he very much wanted to be involved in climate matters.”

Some analysts were less optimistic, viewing the muddled compromise as a sign of how Trump has made institutions like the G-20 all the more feeble. “The worry was that things could unravel, so there was a retraction of ambition from the other democratic leaders,” Thomas Wright of the Brookings Institution told The Post. “They are worried about him creating a fuss over attempts to forge cooperation, which means these summits now are just gatherings of the leaders without a real agenda. That’s the function of Trump.”

The weekend’s single most important event was a lengthy Saturday dinner between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping. It ended with a modest compromise: Trump agreed to at least delay a new round of tariffs on Chinese goods in return for additional Chinese purchases of American farm, energy and industrial goods. China’s concession was a White House attempt to chip away at Trump’s perennial gripe, the bilateral trade deficit with China.

But there’s little reason to think future talks will yield much progress on some of the thorniest sticking points between the two countries, including China’s practice of forced technology transfers from U.S. companies.

“The temporary cease-fire in the U.S.-China trade war left the toughest issues to future bargaining sessions, which will attempt to succeed where earlier efforts failed — and under an ambitious 90-day deadline,” explained my colleague David J. Lynch. “If the latest effort encounters the same roadblocks, Trump said he will proceed with his previous plan to raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese products to 25 percent from 10 percent, which was to have taken effect on Jan. 1.

The prospect of renewed trade hostilities by spring is all too real. The problem for Trump is that the United States is starting to experience the pain of his protectionist politics. “Across the country, thousands of small and medium-size businesses, farmers and retailers are also reportedly suffering financial losses as a result of higher prices for imported materials and goods and the ensuing foreign retaliatory measures,” noted an editorial in the Guardian.

The tensions are made all the more stark by the personal nature of the clash between Trump and Xi. “Both men have cast themselves as ‘maximum leaders,’ strong men defending the interests and honor of their nations,” said Aaron Friedberg, a former foreign policy adviser to former vice president Richard B. Cheney, to Lynch. “Neither wants to appear weak, which would seem to narrow the scope for compromise, but neither wants to be blamed for a complete breakdown in relations.”

Saudi crown prince and Putin greet each other at #G20 summit pic.twitter.com/INGKBd2EjF — Ahmed Al Omran (@ahmed) November 30, 2018

But when faced with the presence of another “maximum leader” — Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman — Trump demurred. The crown prince is currently reviled in the court of international public opinion for his alleged role in ordering the assassination of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. At the G-20, he was greeted with smiles and handshakes by some leaders, and stern lectures from others.

In neither instance was Trump at the head of the pack. In Washington, he has tried to shield Mohammed from accusations of direct complicity in Khashoggi’s murder and called on the preservation of U.S.-Saudi ties. But the G-20 summit exposed the limits of the president’s influence.

“His reputation has obviously been seriously damaged,” said José Miguel Vivanco, the executive director of Human Rights Watch’s Americas Division, of the Saudi crown prince. “I think he was convinced that he could walk on water and pay no cost. . . . But this case will follow him every time he leaves Saudi Arabia, probably for the rest of his life.”

On Sunday, a subdued Trump returned to Washington. While there was little rancor left in his wake, there was also little in the way of substance. “A president who prides himself on being the ultimate disrupter on the global stage,” noted my colleagues, “instead played the part of reluctant diplomat here in Argentina, at the risk of making himself something of a non-factor.” Given the precedents Trump himself has set, his critics may find that a welcome respite.

Want smart analysis of the most important news in your inbox every weekday along with other global reads, interesting ideas and opinions to know? Sign up for the Today’s WorldView newsletter.-------------------Trump wants to grant Kim’s wishes, South Korea says, as new round of summits loom






South Korean President Moon Jae-in shakes hands with President Trump on Nov. 30 at the Group of 20 Summit in Buenos Aires. (Hwang Kwang-Mo/AP)

President Trump has a “very friendly view” of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, and will make his wishes come true if he gives up his nuclear weapons, but until that point sanctions will remain in place, South Korean President Moon Jae-in said.

Moon also expressed optimism that Kim would visit Seoul soon, marking the first time a North Korean leader has ever done so and sending the world a message of his commitment to denuclearize.

After meeting Trump at the Group of 20 summit in Buenos Aires, Moon said Trump had given him a message to bring to Kim.

“And the message was that President Trump has a very friendly view of Chairman Kim and that he likes him, and so he wishes Chairman Kim would implement the rest of their agreement and that he would make what Chairman Kim wants come true,” Moon told reporters on his presidential plane.

But Trump and Moon also agreed on the need to maintain existing sanctions against North Korea until it completely denuclearizes, presidential spokesman Yoon Young-chan said over the weekend.

That statement would appear to leave talks at the same impasse where they have been stuck for weeks, with North Korea demanding sanctions relief before it makes any further concessions, and rejecting a U.S. demand to hand over a list of its nuclear weapons and missile facilities.

But Moon said the North is asking for “corresponding measures” that did not necessarily have to be reduction or removal of sanctions.

He suggested that they might include delaying or reducing U.S.-South Korea military exercises, humanitarian assistance, or sports and cultural exchanges, while a formal declaration of an end to the 1950-53 Korean War “can also be considered.”

The war ended in an armistice rather than a formal peace treaty, and North Korea has been asking for an end-of-war declaration to cease hostile relations with the United States. But Washington is wary of signing an agreement that might be used to undermine the status of the U.S. military presence in South Korea.

Over the weekend, Trump told reporters that he hoped to hold a second summit with Kim early next year, perhaps in January or February, and that three sites are under consideration.

“We’re getting along very well. We have a good relationship,” Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One.

Asked whether he might consider inviting Kim to the United States, he replied: “At some point, yeah.”

White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said Moon and Trump “reaffirmed their commitment to achieve the final, fully verified denuclearization” of North Korea, and agreed on the need for “maintaining vigorous enforcement of existing sanctions to ensure North Korea understands that denuclearization is the only path.”

Moon said Kim could visit Seoul for a summit before he meets Trump, while South Korea’s Unification Ministry said Monday that it still hopes such a visit can be arranged before the end of the year.

“I believe Kim’s Seoul visit itself will be a peaceful message to the world, and also a message of his commitment to denuclearization, commitment to the development of inter-Korean relations,” Moon said.

Moon said that if the North Korean leader came to Seoul, “all the people of South Korea will welcome Kim with open arms.”

But conservatives are sure to take issue with that statement.

In an editorial, the right-leaning DongA Ilbo warned that a rushed visit by Kim to Seoul would only produce “rose-tinted hugs” that don’t lead to substantial progress in denuclearization, while Chosun Ilbo warned of a repeat of the “Singapore fiasco” if Trump and Kim meet for a second time without making progress on nuclear negotiations.

Min Joo Kim in Seoul contributed to this report.

Read more:

As clock ticks, South Korea looks for a leap of faith from Washington over North Korea

North Korea tells Washington to back off human rights criticism

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------ISIS figure involved in executing U.S. hostage Peter Kassig is killed in airstrike






A senior Islamic State commander involved in the execution of U.S. hostage Peter Kassig was killed in an airstrike in southeastern Syria on Sunday, the U.S. military said.

Col. Sean Ryan, a U.S. military spokesman, identified the Islamic State commander as Abu al-Umarayn and said he was killed in “precision strikes” in a desert area known as Badiya.

The coalition had reason to suspect that Umarayn posed an “immediate threat” to coalition forces in the area, Ryan said in an emailed statement.

Umarayn was also “involved in the killing of American citizen and former U.S. Army Ranger Peter Kassig,” the statement said, and he was linked to or directly involved in executing several other prisoners.

[Peter Kassig: ‘Here, in this land, I have found my calling’]

Kassig, who changed his name to Abdul-Rahman Kassig after he converted to Islam while in Islamic State captivity, was executed at some point in November 2014, a year after he was taken hostage in Syria. His captors released a video showing his decapitated head beside his body but did not include scenes of the execution, unlike with the other hostages they killed.

Umarayn is the first Islamic State figure to be publicly identified as having been involved in Kassig’s execution. He is also the first identified as having been killed in an airstrike since the U.S.-led coalition targeted Mohammed Emwazi, who was known as “Jihadi John,” in November 2015.

Emwazi had been the ringleader of a group of four Islamic State fighters nicknamed “The Beatles” by their captives and was identified as the man who appeared in the video of the execution of American journalist James Foley in August 2014.

The U.S. military did not say how they knew Umarayn was involved in Kassig’s killing or what role he may have played. He was with several other Islamic State members when the strikes were carried out, Ryan said.

In 2006-07, Kassig served in Iraq as a medic with the U.S. Army Rangers. At the time of his capture, he was volunteering as an aid worker in Syria, providing medical help and training to Syrians in areas hit hard by the country’s war. He was on his way to the province of Deir al-Zour in eastern Syria when he was kidnapped by the Islamic State, which is also known as ISIS, near the city of Raqqa.

Read more

Mother of slain journalist James Foley says filmmaker took their story

From Daniel Pearl to James Foley: The modern tactic of Islamist beheadings

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Saudi crown prince exchanged messages with aide alleged to have overseen Khashoggi killing






In the hours before and after journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and a senior aide who allegedly oversaw the assassination exchanged multiple messages, according to people familiar with the matter.

The communications between the two men are another piece of evidence tying the crown prince to the killing of Khashoggi, a former palace insider turned prominent critic, who also was a contributing columnist to The Washington Post.

The CIA included the existence of the messages in its classified assessment that Mohammed is likely to have ordered Khashoggi’s death, a view that agency officials have shared with members of Congress and the White House.

Mohammed exchanged the messages on Oct. 2 with Saud al-Qahtani, one of his closest aides and a fierce public supporter who has kept a blacklist of those he deems disloyal to the kingdom. The content of the messages, and what form the messages took, was not known, according to people familiar with the matter.

Citing portions of the CIA’s written assessment, the Wall Street Journal first reported on Saturday that Mohammed had sent at least 11 messages to Qahtani before and after the killing.

The CIA has rated its assessment that Mohammed was involved in the killing at “medium-to-high confidence,” and privately, officials have said it is inconceivable that the prince, who exercises total authority over the government, could not have known about such an audacious operation. The Post had previously described officials as saying that the CIA had high confidence in its assessment.

“The accepted position is that there is no way this happened without him being aware or involved,” said a U.S. official familiar with the CIA’s conclusions. The CIA has declined to comment, and people familiar with the intelligence said the agency has not found any single piece of evidence that irrefutably links Mohammed directly to the killing.

Trump administration officials on Sunday continued to stress that point and emphasized the importance of the United States maintaining a close relationship with Saudi Arabia. The kingdom has acknowledged that its operatives killed Khashoggi, but it says the operation was not authorized by the crown prince and was undertaken by rogue actors.

“I have read every piece of intelligence that is in the possession of the United States government,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in an interview with CNN on Saturday, “and when it is done, when you complete that analysis, there’s no direct evidence linking him to the murder of Jamal Khashoggi.”

Pompeo, who declined to comment on the CIA’s classified assessment, said the United States was working closely with Saudi Arabia on major foreign policy issues, including Afghanistan, and that the kingdom was a vital regional counterweight to Iran.

“They are a relationship that has mattered for 70 years across Republican and Democrat administrations alike,” said Pompeo, who previously served as the CIA director. “It remains an important relationship, and we’re aiming to keep that relationship with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.”

Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis said the question of holding the killers responsible and the strategic importance of the U.S.-Saudi relationship were separate issues.

“Accountability for the murder of Khashoggi stands alone. It is distinct from any other factor going on,” Mattis said in remarks at the Reagan National Defense Forum in California.

“Right now, we do not have a smoking gun,” he said, noting that he had seen all the latest intelligence in the matter as of Friday. “We do not have a smoking gun [showing] that the crown prince was involved. We certainly need to continue to explore . . . all aspects of the murder and find anyone who was involved, but that should not in any way dissuade us from basically confronting Iran,” which the Trump administration views as its major adversary in the Middle East and one that Saudi Arabia is essential to confronting.

Responding to the CIA’s findings, a Saudi official said in a written statement that Mohammed “communicates regularly with various senior officials within the Royal Court on different matters. At no time did [he] correspond with any Saudi officials in any government entity on harming Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi citizen. We continue to categorically reject any accusations based on speculations.”

Qahtani has emerged as a key player in the killing and a compelling link to the prince. He shows up in another portion of the CIA’s assessment: An alleged member of the Saudi hit team that U.S. and Turkish officials said Qahtani oversaw, Maher Mutreb, called Qahtani from inside the consulate to inform him Khashoggi was dead, The Post has previously reported. Mutreb, a security official who was often at the crown prince’s side, is seen on security camera footage entering and leaving the consulate on the day Khashoggi was killed.

The U.S. intelligence community also has intercepts of communications before Khashoggi was killed that show Mohammed had ordered an operation to lure him back to Saudi Arabia. Friends of Khashoggi’s have said that Qahtani called the journalist and raised the potential of his working for the crown prince if he would end his self-imposed exile in Virginia and return to his native country.

Communications that the United States intercepted in July show that Mohammed had asked senior Saudi intelligence officials about the status of a plan to lure Khashoggi back to Saudi Arabia, according to one intelligence official.

President Trump, who also has been briefed on the CIA’s findings, has been equivocal in assigning blame to the crown prince, who works closely with the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner on Middle East issues.

“Maybe he did or maybe he didn’t!” Trump said in a statement last month, adding that the true culprits might never be known. The president has said that the strategic relationship with Saudi Arabia and the benefit to the U.S. economy from Saudi arms purchases are too important to rupture over the killing of Khashoggi, which he has condemned.

But the latest revelation of intelligence connecting Mohammed and his aide Qahtani to the killing may increase pressure on the administration to take more punitive steps.

The Treasury Department has sanctioned 17 individuals it said were involved in Khashoggi’s death, including Qahtani, Mutreb and the Saudi consul general in Turkey, Mohammad al-Otaibi. But some members of Congress have called for further action, and Republicans have begun defecting from the administration over its support for the Saudis.

Last week, in a rebuke of Saudi Arabia and the administration’s handling of the Khashoggi case, a majority of the Senate voted to advance a measure to end U.S. military support to Saudi Arabia for its war in Yemen against Iranian-backed militants.

Mekhennet reported from Frankfurt, Germany. Missy Ryan in Simi Valley, Calif., and John Hudson and Ellen Nakashima in Washington contributed to this report.-------------------How George H.W. Bush pushed the United States to embrace free trade








George H.W. Bush arrives at the White House in 2008. (Lawrence Jackson/AP)

In the obituaries, George H.W. Bush is remembered as the president who oversaw the collapse of the Soviet Union.

But the leader, who died this weekend, had another major foreign policy achievement: He was a champion of free trade and a key architect of globalization, a legacy in danger under the Trump administration.

Bush saw trade as a tool for increasing international cooperation and peace, and he advocated for a liberalized economy.

“If democracy is to be consolidated, the gulfs that separate the few who are very rich from the many who are very poor, that divide civilian from military institutions, that split citizens of European heritage from indigenous peoples, these gulfs must be bridged,” he said shortly after signing the North American Free Trade Agreement in December 1992. “Economic reform must ensure upward mobility and new opportunities for a better life for all citizens of the Americas.”

Bush advocated for increased trade cooperation with China. His administration laid the groundwork for the World Trade Organization, which regulates global commerce, created in 1995.

He pushed for economic liberalization in other ways, too. After the Soviet Union fell, his administration advocated for it in Eastern Europe, and over time, the policies he supported there attracted “a wave of factory investments from global automakers, suppliers and other industries,” according to Automotive News.

As president, he ignored pleas from American automakers to protect their profits by keeping Japanese cars out of the United States, or at least making them more expensive. “There would be an immediate boost to the industry and to the economy if Japan would temporarily back off from their relentless pursuit of increased U.S. market share,” Chrysler chief Lee Iacocca wrote to the president in 1991.

Bush refused to help and would not name Japan an unfair trading partner. The president opposed government-imposed quotas and joined the leaders of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler on a trip to Japan to meet with the top officials at Toyota and Honda.

His biggest accomplishment, though, was the negotiation of NAFTA, and he signed the accord just a month before leaving office.

It was the result of years of work.

At the time, unions worried that the deal would hasten the flow of U.S. jobs to Mexico, where labor was cheaper and laws more lenient. Bush, however, saw it differently. He said the accord would open up a new market for American goods, creating more jobs.

“I think free trade is going to expand our job opportunity,” Bush said at a 1992 presidential debate. “I think it is exports that have saved us when we’re in a recession. We need more free-trade agreements.”

NAFTA would become a model for international trade deals around the world. It “was the template for dozens of trade deals done by the United States and other countries,” Robert E. Scott, the Economic Policy Institute’s chief economist, told my colleagues.

It’s a legacy that Trump seemed hellbent on reversing. As a candidate, he called the deal “an absolute catastrophe for our country.” “NAFTA has to be totally gotten rid of. Something has to happen with NAFTA,” he said in 2016.

But as president, he’s been more cautious. Though Trump pulled the United States out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, his administration didn’t pull out of NAFTA. Instead, the three countries renegotiated a deal — the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (signed the day Bush died) — that looks a lot like NAFTA. However, the new plan incorporates some trade-restrictive measures in an effort to keep more production in the United States.

As the New York Times put it: “However much he wants to dismantle it, Mr. Trump is still operating within the framework that Mr. Bush helped establish. While he disparaged NAFTA, Mr. Trump ultimately accepted Mr. Bush’s fundamental concept of knitting together the three great nations of North America in a single, integrated trade bloc. The alliances that Mr. Bush built and bolstered remain in place, however frayed. And a host of civil rights, environmental and other Bush-era laws still govern America.”

Read more:

Moscow looks back with nostalgia: Bush was a steady hand while Soviet Union collapsed

George H.W. Bush was the accidental catalyst that built the new Republican Party

How George H.W. Bush used handwritten thank-you notes to ink his values-------------------How George H.W. Bush pushed the United States to embrace free trade








George H.W. Bush arrives at the White House in 2008. (Lawrence Jackson/AP)

In the obituaries, George H.W. Bush is remembered as the president who oversaw the collapse of the Soviet Union.

But the leader, who died this weekend, had another major foreign policy achievement: He was a champion of free trade and a key architect of globalization, a legacy in danger under the Trump administration.

Bush saw trade as a tool for increasing international cooperation and peace, and he advocated for a liberalized economy.

“If democracy is to be consolidated, the gulfs that separate the few who are very rich from the many who are very poor, that divide civilian from military institutions, that split citizens of European heritage from indigenous peoples, these gulfs must be bridged,” he said shortly after signing the North American Free Trade Agreement in December 1992. “Economic reform must ensure upward mobility and new opportunities for a better life for all citizens of the Americas.”

Bush advocated for increased trade cooperation with China. His administration laid the groundwork for the World Trade Organization, which regulates global commerce, created in 1995.

He pushed for economic liberalization in other ways, too. After the Soviet Union fell, his administration advocated for it in Eastern Europe, and over time, the policies he supported there attracted “a wave of factory investments from global automakers, suppliers and other industries,” according to Automotive News.

As president, he ignored pleas from American automakers to protect their profits by keeping Japanese cars out of the United States, or at least making them more expensive. “There would be an immediate boost to the industry and to the economy if Japan would temporarily back off from their relentless pursuit of increased U.S. market share,” Chrysler chief Lee Iacocca wrote to the president in 1991.

Bush refused to help and would not name Japan an unfair trading partner. The president opposed government-imposed quotas and joined the leaders of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler on a trip to Japan to meet with the top officials at Toyota and Honda.

His biggest accomplishment, though, was the negotiation of NAFTA, and he signed the accord just a month before leaving office.

It was the result of years of work.

At the time, unions worried that the deal would hasten the flow of U.S. jobs to Mexico, where labor was cheaper and laws more lenient. Bush, however, saw it differently. He said the accord would open up a new market for American goods, creating more jobs.

“I think free trade is going to expand our job opportunity,” Bush said at a 1992 presidential debate. “I think it is exports that have saved us when we’re in a recession. We need more free-trade agreements.”

NAFTA would become a model for international trade deals around the world. It “was the template for dozens of trade deals done by the United States and other countries,” Robert E. Scott, the Economic Policy Institute’s chief economist, told my colleagues.

It’s a legacy that Trump seemed hellbent on reversing. As a candidate, he called the deal “an absolute catastrophe for our country.” “NAFTA has to be totally gotten rid of. Something has to happen with NAFTA,” he said in 2016.

But as president, he’s been more cautious. Though Trump pulled the United States out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, his administration didn’t pull out of NAFTA. Instead, the three countries renegotiated a deal — the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (signed the day Bush died) — that looks a lot like NAFTA. However, the new plan incorporates some trade-restrictive measures in an effort to keep more production in the United States.

As the New York Times put it: “However much he wants to dismantle it, Mr. Trump is still operating within the framework that Mr. Bush helped establish. While he disparaged NAFTA, Mr. Trump ultimately accepted Mr. Bush’s fundamental concept of knitting together the three great nations of North America in a single, integrated trade bloc. The alliances that Mr. Bush built and bolstered remain in place, however frayed. And a host of civil rights, environmental and other Bush-era laws still govern America.”

Read more:

Moscow looks back with nostalgia: Bush was a steady hand while Soviet Union collapsed

George H.W. Bush was the accidental catalyst that built the new Republican Party

How George H.W. Bush used handwritten thank-you notes to ink his values-------------------Mexico’s president has turned the presidential mansion into a museum








People line up to enter to Los Pinos Presidential residence, turned into a museum by order of Mexico's new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador, in Mexico City, Dec. 1, 2018. (Alexandre Meneghini/Reuters)

MEXICO CITY — Until Friday, the sprawling, forested complex of Los Pinos was the site of Mexico’s presidential palace, the country’s most prestigious address — a symbol of power and, to many Mexicans, a monument to excess.

And then, on Saturday morning, with the inauguration of Andrés Manuel López Obrador, its doors were suddenly thrown open to the public, perhaps the first promise fulfilled by Mexico’s leftist leader, intent on proving his humility by living in a small home in the capital.

Hundreds of people poured through the gates, gawking at the chandeliers, the private libraries, the vast kitchens of Mexico’s previous presidents, dating back to 1934. It was a surreal scene. López Obrador’s predecessor, Enrique Peña Nieto, had only moved out three days earlier, and the rooms were mostly empty. In vacant rooms, signs were posted reading: “Presidential Bedroom” and “Presidential office.”

A tour guide pointed to a large room and told several visiting journalists assertively: “This was the closet of Enrique Peña Nieto.”

The former president’s bathroom was also on display, captured in untold hundreds of selfies. If López Obrador was trying to prove his point that his predecessors had been living in luxury, he succeeded.

“It’s nice to see this because of its historical importance, but it’s also sad,” said Pilar Sierra Colin, 50, who visited from a nearby neighborhood in Mexico City. “The men who used to live here are the ones who ruined the country.”

A flutist and a pianist played in the lobby. Officials suggested that it could be a frequent venue for concerts or plays. For now, though, the guides and guards seemed slightly overwhelmed, like unwitting real estate agents setting up the world’s strangest open house.

“Little by little we’ll figure out how to integrate it into the city,” said Antonio Martinez, one of the coordinators of the complex.

There were a few books left in the library, a biography of artist Frida Kahlo, the poems of Octavio Paz, the photos of Juan Rulfo. A new statue of Peña Nieto had been placed in the garden, next to a row of other previous leaders.

Los Pinos, or The Pines, has been home to Mexico’s presidents since Lazaro Cardenas moved here in 1934. Ironically, he had been trying to prove the same point as López Obrador, arguing that the previous presidential residence in the nearby Castle of Chapultepec was too ostentatious. But Los Pinos was hardly a humble abode: it is 14 times larger than the White House, according to Architectural Digest.

“Looks at this wood. This is imported. Everything here is the most expensive, the most luxurious. Why couldn’t they spend this money on the people of Mexico?” said Braulio Melquiades, 69, who owns an auto parts shop.

López Obrador repeatedly referred to the grounds as a symbol of excess. On the campaign trail, he said, “That residence is haunted. Not even by cleaning it can you solve the problem of that building.”

Instead, López Obrador said he planned to “moralize public life.”

“We are going to get rid of the luxuries of government,” he said.

But many Mexicans questioned how serious he was about his most radical promises: moving out of Los Pinos, selling the presidential airplane, disbanding the secret service.

Yet on the first day of his presidency, Los Pinos was indeed open to the public. Brochures were handed out reading, “Welcome, citizens of Mexico, to Los Pinos.” It is now overseen by Mexico’s secretary of culture,

Some of the visitors had come from across the country. Others stopped in the middle of their morning jogs. Some wore Mexican flags as capes. At least two men wore López Obrador masks.

One woman exclaimed: “We are the first humble Mexicans to ever enter this building.”

But some of those who visited the complex on Saturday morning raised questions about whether turning Los Pinos into a museum was a practical idea — the same critique political analysts have been making for months.

“Every other country in the world has a place where leaders can meet, where foreign dignitaries can visit. Where will that be in Mexico?” said Erika Valencia, 22, a student at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.

For others, it was a peek into the private lives of the leaders they had only read about, or watched on television, or simply an opportunity to see the kind of mansion they knew few Mexicans could ever afford.

Beneath the chandelier in the house’s foyer Natalia Hernandez, 4, leaned close to her mother, Angelica Remigio, 35.

“Is this where princesses live?” the girl asked.-------------------The wildly ambitious plan of Mexico’s President AMLO








Andrés Manuel López Obrador waves to supporters at Zócalo square in Mexico City on July 2 after winning Mexico's presidential election. (Pedro Pardo/AFP/Getty Images)

MEXICO CITY — He is Mexico’s Bernie Sanders, according to his foreign fans. No, say critics — he is more like a Mexican Hugo Chávez.

In fact, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, Mexico’s new leftist president, is pretty different from both the American senator and Venezuela’s late socialist leader. But like them, he is a man with a plan.

A big plan.

To López Obrador, known as AMLO, the six-year term beginning Saturday isn’t just another presidency. It is the “Fourth Transformation” — following independence from Spain, the mid-19th century political reforms and the Mexican Revolution.

He is promising to end corruption. To transform the “neoliberal” economic model. To pacify a country with soaring violence — bringing in Pope Francis to help if needed.

It might be tempting to laugh off some of his proposals. Free Internet all over the place! A train linking the Atlantic and Pacific coasts! Two million acres planted with trees!

But, in a country fed up with politics as usual, he won a landslide victory.

Sure, he may be a megalomaniac, but his approach is seductive, said Jesús Silva-Herzog Márquez, a political scientist at the Tecnológico de Monterrey university.

“Because for a long time we were in a consensus — which many people in the world are sick of — that says we can’t do anything,” he said. Big social programs are impossible. The economy won’t allow them. Progress will only come little by little.

“López Obrador says, of course we can achieve it. … We are going to convert ourselves into this great power of the 21st century,” said Silva-Herzog Márquez.

Economists question the new president’s assurances that he can pay for his ideas with savings from cutting corruption and official salaries and perks. Details are not exactly López Obrador’s strong suit.

But the man has a plan. Here are some highlights of what he has promised:

Infrastructure projects

Build a “Mayan Train” connecting five states in the southeast.

Upgrade an old rail line to create a transportation link between the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico.

Pave 300 roads in the poor southern state of Oaxaca.

Provide Internet coverage nationwide, with free access in schools, hospitals and public spaces.

Social benefits

Double monthly payments to the elderly.

Provide regular financial assistance to a million disabled people.

Education

Create 100 public universities during this presidential term.

Eliminate entrance exams for universities.

Provide a monthly payment to students in 10th to 12th grades to lower the dropout rate.

Economy

Raise the salaries of teachers, doctors, nurses, police officers and soldiers.

Double the minimum wage in the area near the U.S. border.

Offer paid apprenticeships for 2.3 million young people.

Make the Mexican economy grow at least 4 percent annually.

Don’t spend more money than what the government receives.

Government

Decentralize the government, moving ministries to different states.

Turn the presidential residence into a park, and sell the presidential jet.

Cut officials’ salaries (including the president’s).

Get rid of the president’s security force, the equivalent of the U.S. Secret Service.

Energy

Freeze gas prices for three years.

Revive the fortunes of the state oil company.

Security-------------------Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the G20: Handshake with Putin, talking-to from Macron






Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was once feted in Western capitals as a new breed of economic and social reformer. Then came the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul on Oct. 2 — and with it, a whirlwind of international controversy and criticism that has engulfed the young Saudi royal.

This week, less than two months after the killing of Khashoggi, Mohammed traveled to Buenos Aires for a G-20 meeting that brought together leaders from the world’s top economies. For the Saudi crown prince, it was a chance to see whether he would now get the cold shoulder from the same leaders who once embraced him.

At a photo call during the official welcome ceremony Friday, Mohammed stood to the far right of the stage on the second row of world leaders. Footage showed the crown prince walking away from the stage as other world leaders, including Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, mingled.

But the crown prince appeared far from isolated. Later, Mohammed sat next to Russian President Vladimir Putin as the G-20 summit began. The two were filmed aggressively shaking hands and laughing as they greeted each other.

A more ambiguous interaction from earlier in the day with French President Emmanuel Macron was also captured on film that was shared by Saudi news outlets. What the two leaders are saying is hard to discern, but at one point Mohammed appears to tell Macron not to worry. “I do worry,” Macron responds.

An Elysee official later told Reuters news agency that Macron had conveyed a “very firm” message that Saudi Arabia needed to allow international experts to be part of the investigation into Khashoggi’s death.

Earlier this week, President Trump had said he had no plans to meet with Mohammed. “I would have met with him, but we didn’t set that one up,” Trump told reporters Thursday.

On Friday, the Saudi-owned Al Arabiya news organization reported that the two leaders had a “friendly” meeting at the sidelines of the G-20. Trump later told reporters that there had been “no discussion” with the crown prince. “We might, but we had none," he said.

Al Arabiya English also noted that Mohammed had been welcomed by Argentina’s President Mauricio Macri at Friday’s summit. Macri had previously told reporters that he thought the killing of Khashoggi was a valid subject for discussion at the G-20.

"This issue, which has impacted the world, is on the table, and it may come out in bilateral meetings or not, or in the G-20 agenda,” Macri said at a joint news conference with Macron on Thursday. Earlier in the week, Human Rights Watch had asked the Argentine government to investigate the role of the crown prince in Khashoggi’s killing, as well as possible war crimes in Yemen.

Mohammed hosted Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his own residence in the Argentine capital Friday: Both Saudi and Indian accounts of the meeting made no mention of Khashoggi.

British Prime Minister Theresa May is also scheduled to meet with the Saudi crown prince Friday. The British leader has said that she will be “robust” as she calls for an investigation into Khashoggi’s killing.

Read more:

After Jamal Khashoggi’s killing, these key questions remain unanswered-------------------The Baltic Sea offers a preview of what’s to come with global warming








Marine biologist Catriona Clemmesen-Bockelmann feeds herring at the GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research in Kiel, Germany. (Morris MacMatzen/Getty Images)

The herring here — both a symbol of the seaside region and a staple food that locals eat salted, pickled or fried — have plummeted to about a third of their population in the 1990s.

Cod have declined drastically, too. And they are getting smaller and thinner. Scientists have observed fish in their samples whose white fatty underbellies had all but disappeared. “They just looked like they were starving,” marine ecologist Jan Dierking said.

Then came this past summer’s heat wave, which increased Baltic Sea temperatures to an unprecedented 80.6 degrees Fahrenheit, killing starfish and other fragile marine creatures.

It all could be a sign of things to come in a warming world.

The Baltic Sea is a sort of experimental pressure cooker for marine life, a test for how species fare — and whether they can survive at all — in conditions the world’s oceans may soon experience.

“Many of the pressures have hit here much earlier and more intensely than in other world regions,” said Thorsten Reusch, a marine ecologist based here at Germany’s largest ocean research institute.

That is in part due to the Baltic’s small size: It is roughly the size of California, or 1/250th of the Atlantic. It is also tucked between nine countries — including Sweden to the north, Russia to the east and Germany to the south — whose residents pollute and dump waste into, travel over and swim through its delicate marine ecosystems.

As a result, conditions have been changing rapidly. The temperature of the Baltic has risen at roughly three times the average rate of global oceans over the past decade. It has experienced a tenfold expansion of no-oxygen “dead zones” that wipe out fish and their habitats in the past 115 years. And it is seeing increasing levels of acidification.



Starfish suction themselves to the walls of a tank at the GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research. (Morris MacMatzen/Getty Images)

By studying the Baltic, and comprehensive data sets that span five decades, scientists are learning valuable lessons from nature. At times, the ecosystem is seemingly unaffected by a huge flux in conditions. At other times, species and their habitats are devastated when a tiny nudge in temperature or salinity disrupts the balance.

The Baltic offers an ominous but also in some ways hopeful vision of the capacity for species to adapt and what people working in collaboration might be able to do to mitigate environmental damage.

One problem Baltic researchers have observed is that animals and their food sources can fall out of sync.

That seems to have happened with baby herring and the small crustaceans they feed on. Researcher Catriona Clemmesen-Bockelmann says higher temperatures have prompted herring to hatch early, before their main food source has time to grow.

Cod, meanwhile, have been separated geographically from their main fish prey. To escape oxygen dead zones, cod have concentrated themselves in the southern Baltic, while the sprat they like to eat have shifted to the relatively cooler northern waters. Cod still have access to tiny organisms on the sea floor as a food source. But the competition is fierce, and weaker cod may not get as much as they need.

Dierking hypothesizes that is why the cod in his samples were so thin. “We think they all swam to the shallow water and crowded each other out, while competing for the same food,” he said.

Some species are evolving in ways that help them cope with the Baltic’s changing conditions — at least to a point. For example, certain local populations of mussels, jellyfish and stickleback have managed to adapt to a lower salt level in the water. There is also evidence that Baltic cod may have adapted to a lower-oxygen environment than other cod populations.

And sometimes, as if to make up for a loss, a new species will appear in the Baltic for the very first time, said Björn Fischer, a 53-year old fisherman who is as proud of his apropos name as he is of the seven generations of fishermen before him.

Fischer noted that species such as sardines, sea bass and mackerel have migrated from southern waters that have become too warm for them.

“Somewhere another door always opens,” he said. “As a fisherman, you always have to be ready to adapt.”



The research vessel Polarfuchs is among those that monitor marine life in the Baltic Sea. (Morris MacMatzen/Getty Images)

Most scientists who study the Baltic Sea are less sanguine about the effects of climate change. But they see potential in the way the surrounding countries have cooperated in response to environmental problems such as overfishing and pollution.

In 1974, leaders from the Baltic-facing countries overcame their Cold War differences to establish an environmental pact and commission to manage their shared resource. The science-backed fishing quotas that followed, together with other regulations that are now being enforced by the European Union and Russia, have helped to reverse some harmful trends. They have curbed the overfishing of some fish species and reduced toxic pollutants and other contaminants to revive the populations of seals, cormorants and eagles living near the Baltic’s coasts.

“We know that E.U.-bashing is now very much en vogue all across Europe and the U.S.,” Reusch said. “But the good flip side of it is, of course, that the E.U. Commission now has a catalogue of sanctions they can impose on countries when they don’t meet, for example, their nutrient reduction goals. And I think that’s a good thing.”

The environmental protection regime has its shortcomings. There has been no crackdown on countries that allow massive amounts of agricultural runoff into the Baltic. “Basically every country is failing that,” Reusch said. In July, algae blooms that are a result of such runoff, and that rob fish and their habitats of oxygen, forced Poland to shut down 50 Baltic Sea beaches.



Waters made green by cyanobacteria led Polish authorities to ban swimming on 50 Baltic Sea beaches in July. The ban even extended inland to the Zegrze Reservoir, above, near Warsaw. (Czarek Sokolowski/AP)

The countries surrounding the Baltic Sea also have been slow to turn their attention to climate change.

Reusch noted the successes of the fishing quotas aimed at helping stocks recover are being erased by the effects of higher temperatures. The solutions to the most vicious problems, he said, start many miles away from the water. They require people to change how they farm, how much money they are willing to spend on food, how they travel.

But he remains hopeful countries can coordinate their response, in the Baltic and beyond.

“I think we have to take our chances,” he said. “I mean, what’s the alternative? It’s not a workable solution to say it’s hopeless or we don’t do anything. Because it can always get worse. Definitely.”

Read more

Berlin’s mayor tries to wean Germans off the water bottle

Russia’s Suez Canal? Ships start plying a less-icy Arctic, thanks to climate change

‘Scallop Wars’: French and British fishermen clash in the English Channel

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Israeli police recommend charging Netanyahu in third corruption case






Israeli police on Sunday recommended indicting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on charges of bribery and corruption in a third case — this time on suspicion that the leader eased business regulations for the country’s largest telecommunications company in exchange for favorable coverage for him and his wife on a popular news website owned by the firm.

Police have also recommended that media mogul Shaul Elovitch — a close friend of Netanyahu and the majority shareholder in Bezeq, the telecoms firm that owns the news site Walla — be indicted for his alleged role in the affair. Elovitch’s wife, Iris, and Netanyahu’s wife, Sara, were also implicated in the case, known as Case 4000.

While it is now up to Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit to formally prosecute those involved, Sunday’s announcement ramps up pressure on Netanyahu, who faces a raft of legal woes and who, in coming months, could find himself in the throes of early national elections after the departure last month of a key partner in his governing coalition.

[Amid political turmoil, Israeli government holds together. For now.]

His opponents on Sunday called for him to resign as soon as possible in light of the allegations, which follow police recommendations last February to charge him in two other corruption cases, and yet another case against his wife for alleged breach of public trust.

Netanyahu questioned the timing and veracity of Sunday’s announcement, accusing police of leaking parts of the investigation even before any conclusions were reached.



Shaul Elovitch sits in magistrate court during a hearing in Tel Aviv in February. (Amir Cohen/Reuters)

[Israeli police recommend indictment of Netanyahu on corruption charges]

“Police recommendations have no legal status,” he said in a statement. “Only recently, police recommendations in cases against other public figures were rejected by the relevant authorities. I am certain that after considering the matters the same conclusion will be reached in this case as well.”

Netanyahu reiterated a phrase he has used since the investigations against him were launched more than two years ago — “that there was nothing because there is nothing.”

When police initially said he should be charged, Netanyahu said it was an attempt by his opponents to unseat him through corruption allegations because they couldn’t win at the ballot box. Now he appears to be facing the challenge of both — legal charges and an election.

“The question is what will happen first: Will the attorney general decide to prosecute, or will the government collapse?” said Reuven Hazan, a professor of political science at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. “If there is an election first and Netanyahu wins with everyone knowing about his legal issues, then he can say that despite knowledge of the legal battles, the people still want him.”

If the indictment comes first, it is unclear whether Netanyahu will be able to remain prime minister.

In a statement Sunday, police said they had evidence that from 2014 to 2017, while Netanyahu served as minister of communications as well as prime minister, he intervened with regulators to help Bezeq merge with another large Israeli communications company. In exchange, Elovitch instructed journalists at Walla to provide favorable coverage of the prime minister and his wife, according to the statement.

“Netanyahu and his associates intervened in a blatant and ongoing manner, sometimes even daily, in the content published by the Walla News website and sought to influence the appointment of senior employees (editors and reporters),” police said.

The website was used to promote the prime minister’s personal interests by publishing flattering articles and pictures and removing critical content about him and his family, the police statement said.

Netanyahu’s alleged manipulation of Walla has been widely reported by local media, but last week a fuller exposé on Israel’s Channel 10 featured both former and present employees of the news site describing in detail how stories were changed or completely removed if they were not favorable to the prime minister and his wife.

Avi Gabbay, chairman of the opposition Zionist Union party, called for the prime minister to step down immediately. “A person with such a sickly obsession with what the media says about him must not lead the State of Israel,” he said. “Every day he continues in his position [brings] harm to the citizens of this country.”

In the two other cases in which the police have recommended indictments, Netanyahu is suspected of receiving bribes in exchange for favors.

The first case, referred to as Case 1000, involves gifts of cigars and jewelry bestowed by billionaire benefactors such as ­Israeli-born Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan, whose film credits include “Fight Club” and “Pretty Woman,” and Australian business executive James Packer.

The other case, 2000, involves deals made between Netanyahu and Arnon Mozes, publisher of the popular Israeli daily Yedioth Ahronoth. Information leaked to the Israeli media suggested the agreement would have allowed the prime minister to receive more-favorable coverage from the newspaper if he agreed to weaken the status of rival daily newspaper Israel ­Hayom, owned by U.S. casino magnate Sheldon Adelson.

In November, police announced that Netanyahu was not a suspect in an additional case, 3000, involving the dubious purchase of naval vessels from a German shipbuilder. Indictments were recommended, however, against some of the prime minister’s close associates, including his cousin and attorney David Shimron.

[Netanyahu’s wife charged with misuse of public funds in ‘meals-ordering’ affai r]

Sara Netanyahu is also a suspect in a different corruption case. Last June, she was formally charged by state prosecutors with fraud and breach of public trust for ordering meals to the official prime minister’s residence worth a total of $99,000, even though a full-time chef was employed there. An initial hearing has already been held in that case.

Read more:

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------AMLO inaugurated as Mexico’s president, vowing to transform the country






A leftist leader vowing to launch a “profound and radical” transformation of Mexico and improve the lives of the poor was sworn in as president on Saturday, opening an uncertain era in a country with deep economic and security ties with the United States.

Andrés Manuel López Obrador, 65, known by his initials AMLO, took office as potentially the most powerful Mexican president in decades. Not only did he win 53 percent of the vote in a three-way race, but his party cinched a majority in both houses of Congress and gained control of numerous state legislatures.

“Today, we begin a change of our political regime,” López Obrador said in an address to the nation, after donning the green, white and red presidential sash in Congress. “Starting from now, we will carry out a peaceful, steady political transformation. But it will also be profound and radical, because it will end the corruption and impunity that impede Mexico’s rebirth.”

López Obrador is the first leftist president since Mexico transitioned from a one-party authoritarian state to a full democracy in 2000. So far, he has given conflicting signals about whether he will govern as a centrist or more of an ideologue.

In his speech, he launched a blistering attack on the free-market, pro-trade policies that Mexican governments have followed since the 1980s, saying they had been “a disaster, a calamity” resulting in tepid growth, rising income inequality and the migration of impoverished workers.

López Obrador took particular aim at the country’s energy reforms, completed in 2013, which were meant to attract more foreign investment and expand the state-run industry.

In his address, he called that policy a failure, raising questions about whether he would attempt to block future foreign contracts in the oil industry. International companies have already invested billions here, and López Obrador’s statements were seen by some as a harbinger of his broader economic policies.

A longtime social activist known for his simple lifestyle, López Obrador has promised to battle corruption and usher in a new era of government austerity, ending the opulence and perks enjoyed by past leaders.

His inauguration marked a sharp break with tradition. López Obrador was driven to the Congress in his simple white Volkswagen Jetta. Across town, the Mexican White House and its gardens were thrown open to the public as a newly established park. López Obrador has given up the residence, known as Los Pinos, and plans to sell the presidential jet and travel commercially.

Hundreds of people strolled through the landscaped grounds of the presidential estate on Saturday, gaping at a palatial residence they had only previously seen on television.

“I feel like I’m dreaming,” said Braulio Melquiades, 69, who owns an auto parts shop in the city. “We are poor people staring at these beautiful things for the first time.”



Women dressed as 'adelitas' look on at the Zocalo prior the events of the Presidential Investiture as part of the 65th Mexico Presidential Inauguration at Zocalo. (Manuel Velasquez/Getty Images)

López Obrador pledged a raft of programs benefiting the poor — who make up over 40 percent of the population — as well as young people and the elderly. They include doubling monthly payments to the elderly and offering paid apprenticeships to 2.3 million young people.

The election of a leftist “is a historic, very important change for Mexico, and it’s very healthy in a country with the grotesque inequalities that we have,” said Jesús Silva-Herzog Márquez, a prominent political scientist who teaches at the Tecnologico de Monterrey University.

[AMLO was stuck on a commercial flight. He still vows to sell the state jet]

Yet, he and other Mexicans are unsure whether López Obrador will govern as a practical-minded centrist — as he did as mayor of Mexico City from 2000 to 2005 — or an autocratic populist. While there are moderate, U.S.-educated academics in the new cabinet, analysts say power has shifted from the technocrats who have steered Mexican financial policy for decades.

In November, the stock market tumbled 14 percent and the peso weakened after López Obrador and his party proposed limits on bank fees and the cancellation of a $13 billion airport in Mexico City that was already under construction. The sell-off occurred as Brazil’s markets soared on the election of a far-right politician.

“There’s just a lot of uncertainty,” said Alfredo Coutiño, director for Latin America at Moody’s Analytics.

The president has sought to reassure investors, saying he will respect the independence of the central bank and not expropriate land. López Obrador has also embraced the previous Mexican government’s efforts to preserve much of NAFTA in negotiations with the Trump administration.

Another sign of López Obrador’s pragmatism is his warm relationship with Washington.

In his inauguration address, the new Mexican leader made a point of welcoming Trump’s envoys to the ceremony — Vice President Pence and Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and adviser. Since his election on July 1, López Obrador said in his speech, “I have been treated with respect by Donald Trump.”

The bilateral relationship, which has been severely strained by Trump’s insulting tweets and insistence on a border wall, may soon be tested. Trump has vowed to block thousands of migrants who have traveled to the U.S. border in a caravan from Central America.

López Obrador pledged during his campaign that he would not “do the dirty work of foreign governments” in deterring Central American migrants. But in a significant concession, his administration recently indicated its willingness to host the Central Americans as they await asylum interviews in the United States.

López Obrador, the son of a shopkeeper in the southern state of Tabasco, is a longtime opposition politician who won the presidency on his third attempt. He built his career as an outsider using mass demonstrations to pressure the government on issues like alleged electoral fraud.

He has been highly critical of Mexico’s democratic institutions including courts, the press and the independent electoral authority, and has sought to use informal public referendums to rally support for his plans — raising concerns that he will pursue a personalistic, autocratic form of government.

“It has become abundantly clear that AMLO’s number one priority is to consolidate power,” Duncan Wood, the director of the Mexico Institute at the Washington-based Wilson Center, wrote in a recent issue of Americas Quarterly. The new president, he wrote, feels that democratization and the decentralization of authority have “weakened the government’s ability to bring order to the country” and contributed to soaring rates of violence.

López Obrador has denied seeking to rule as a strongman. He begins his six-year term with a 66 percent favorability rating, according to the newspaper El Financiero — while only 26 percent of Mexicans approve of the performance of outgoing President Enrique Peña Nieto.

But support for López Obrador could flag if he can’t fund his ambitious agenda. He has pledged to pay for new social programs by reducing government salaries and fighting corruption, but economists question whether that will work.

The new president also has appeared to retreat on some campaign promises, such as removing the military from their central role in fighting organized crime and violence. He recently announced that, given the weakness and corruption of the police, the military would command a new National Guard force to keep order.

Juan Torres Aburto, 57, traveled from Acapulco to the capital for the inauguration. He was among the crowds at the former presidential estate watching López Obrador’s swearing-in on giant outdoor screens.

“He’s saying all the right things, but it’s still a nervous time for me, a moment of uncertainty,” Torres Aburto said.

He pointed at the nearby statues of previous Mexican leaders.

“I voted for them, too, and look at what happened. It was a mess.”



Read more

Mexico’s leader rides wave of anti-corruption furor transforming Latin America

Who is AMLO?

Mexico elects first leftist president in nearly 20 years

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Mexico’s president has turned the presidential mansion into a museum








People line up to enter to Los Pinos Presidential residence, turned into a museum by order of Mexico's new president Andrés Manuel López Obrador, in Mexico City, Dec. 1, 2018. (Alexandre Meneghini/Reuters)

MEXICO CITY — Until Friday, the sprawling, forested complex of Los Pinos was the site of Mexico’s presidential palace, the country’s most prestigious address — a symbol of power and, to many Mexicans, a monument to excess.

And then, on Saturday morning, with the inauguration of Andrés Manuel López Obrador, its doors were suddenly thrown open to the public, perhaps the first promise fulfilled by Mexico’s leftist leader, intent on proving his humility by living in a small home in the capital.

Hundreds of people poured through the gates, gawking at the chandeliers, the private libraries, the vast kitchens of Mexico’s previous presidents, dating back to 1934. It was a surreal scene. López Obrador’s predecessor, Enrique Peña Nieto, had only moved out three days earlier, and the rooms were mostly empty. In vacant rooms, signs were posted reading: “Presidential Bedroom” and “Presidential office.”

A tour guide pointed to a large room and told several visiting journalists assertively: “This was the closet of Enrique Peña Nieto.”

The former president’s bathroom was also on display, captured in untold hundreds of selfies. If López Obrador was trying to prove his point that his predecessors had been living in luxury, he succeeded.

“It’s nice to see this because of its historical importance, but it’s also sad,” said Pilar Sierra Colin, 50, who visited from a nearby neighborhood in Mexico City. “The men who used to live here are the ones who ruined the country.”

A flutist and a pianist played in the lobby. Officials suggested that it could be a frequent venue for concerts or plays. For now, though, the guides and guards seemed slightly overwhelmed, like unwitting real estate agents setting up the world’s strangest open house.

“Little by little we’ll figure out how to integrate it into the city,” said Antonio Martinez, one of the coordinators of the complex.

There were a few books left in the library, a biography of artist Frida Kahlo, the poems of Octavio Paz, the photos of Juan Rulfo. A new statue of Peña Nieto had been placed in the garden, next to a row of other previous leaders.

Los Pinos, or The Pines, has been home to Mexico’s presidents since Lazaro Cardenas moved here in 1934. Ironically, he had been trying to prove the same point as López Obrador, arguing that the previous presidential residence in the nearby Castle of Chapultepec was too ostentatious. But Los Pinos was hardly a humble abode: it is 14 times larger than the White House, according to Architectural Digest.

“Looks at this wood. This is imported. Everything here is the most expensive, the most luxurious. Why couldn’t they spend this money on the people of Mexico?” said Braulio Melquiades, 69, who owns an auto parts shop.

López Obrador repeatedly referred to the grounds as a symbol of excess. On the campaign trail, he said, “That residence is haunted. Not even by cleaning it can you solve the problem of that building.”

Instead, López Obrador said he planned to “moralize public life.”

“We are going to get rid of the luxuries of government,” he said.

But many Mexicans questioned how serious he was about his most radical promises: moving out of Los Pinos, selling the presidential airplane, disbanding the secret service.

Yet on the first day of his presidency, Los Pinos was indeed open to the public. Brochures were handed out reading, “Welcome, citizens of Mexico, to Los Pinos.” It is now overseen by Mexico’s secretary of culture,

Some of the visitors had come from across the country. Others stopped in the middle of their morning jogs. Some wore Mexican flags as capes. At least two men wore López Obrador masks.

One woman exclaimed: “We are the first humble Mexicans to ever enter this building.”

But some of those who visited the complex on Saturday morning raised questions about whether turning Los Pinos into a museum was a practical idea — the same critique political analysts have been making for months.

“Every other country in the world has a place where leaders can meet, where foreign dignitaries can visit. Where will that be in Mexico?” said Erika Valencia, 22, a student at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.

For others, it was a peek into the private lives of the leaders they had only read about, or watched on television, or simply an opportunity to see the kind of mansion they knew few Mexicans could ever afford.

Beneath the chandelier in the house’s foyer Natalia Hernandez, 4, leaned close to her mother, Angelica Remigio, 35.

“Is this where princesses live?” the girl asked.-------------------Why France loves this Algerian writer more than Algeria does






Algerian writer and journalist Kamel Daoud poses in Paris on April 14, 2016 after receiving the Jean-Luc Lagardere prize for journalist of the year. (JOEL SAGET/AFP/Getty Images)

Algerian writer Kamel Daoud is feted in France — and resented by many in his home country. It’s easy to see why.

Daoud won France’s most prestigious literary prize, the Prix Goncourt, for his first novel in 2013. But beyond his literary talents, he appeals to French sympathies by declaring that he is not particularly interested in apologies for co­lo­ni­al­ism or the violence used to try to suppress Algerian independence. He says co­lo­ni­al­ism has become little more than an excuse for Algeria to ignore its internal decay.

“As soon as you say anything, they tell you it’s the fault of colonization,” he said in an interview here. “If you say that’s not true, they tell you, ‘Well then, you are in favor of colonization.’ No. I am for the present. Now.”

Daoud reserves the bulk of his criticism for fellow Muslims.

When his father’s grave in the Algerian city of Mesra was vandalized, Daoud blamed the spread of Islamic extremism.

After a group of Arab men orchestrated sexual assaults in Cologne, Germany, on New Year’s Eve in 2015, he mocked the “wishful thinking” of the European left, which, in his view, had blindly welcomed Arab refugees without acknowledging that these men see women as “guilty of an awful crime — life.”



French President Emmanuel Macron, center, walks next to Michele Audin, daughter of late Maurice Audin, as he leaves the home of Josette Audin, widow of Audin, on Sept. 13, 2018 in Bagnolet, France. (THOMAS SAMSON/AFP/Getty Images)

Two weeks later, he sounded off on “the sexual misery of the Arab world” in the New York Times. His latest book expands on that theme.

In a France still grappling with the aftermath of a deadly series of terrorist attacks, his views have earned him esteem as a brave foreign dissident who speaks the truth. He is a regular commentator on French radio and a mainstay in the French papers, where his essays are routinely billed as “interventions” — often by those who are not especially known for their charity toward Muslims.

“He’s an extremely courageous man,” said Alain Finkielkraut, a right-wing public intellectual. “The problem with Islam, it’s not colonization or oppression by the West. It’s the oppression done by the religion itself, primarily on women, which then drives men insane.” That line also happens to be the thesis of Daoud’s new book.

For Caroline Fourest, a French feminist and critic of the veils worn by some Muslim women, Daoud is the image of the enlightened Muslim man. “Kamel Daoud is a remarkable voice, who clearly fits into our very French tradition of Voltaire,” she said. “He is a dissident who is unafraid to speak the truth, especially in the face of religious tyranny.”

Daoud is not universally beloved in France, where he is also regularly criticized as being complicit in recycling Islamophobia, especially by French Muslims and left-leaning academics.

But in Algeria, the feelings are more hostile. Daoud is sometimes seen as an Uncle Tom figure, who publishes the books that the country’s colonizers want to read. One imam went so far as to call for his murder. Algeria’s foreign minister called him a puppet of “an international Zionist lobby hostile to Islam and Algeria.”

“It’s a very contemporary problem,” Sofiane Hadjadj, Daoud’s Algerian publisher, said in a telephone interview. “How to continue defending your ideas, when the perspective changes based on where you are. The same text written and edited in Algeria will not be read the same way there as it will be read in France or the United States.”

Other Algerian writers of Daoud’s generation disagree that the colonial past is no longer a pressing concern.

“There’s a trauma that’s never been accounted for,” said Akram Belkaïd, an Algerian essayist based in Paris.

Under President Emmanuel Macron, France has begun to acknowledge, officially, the systemic brutality of its administration in Algeria, its signature former colony. In gestures that would have been impossible to imagine even 10 years ago, Macron has publicly apologized for France’s use of torture during the Algerian War and atoned for the forced disappearance of a young mathematician and anti-colonial Algerian activist in 1957, as well as the murder of peaceful pro-independence protesters by Paris police in 1961.

“Colonial mechanisms continue today,” Belkaïd said. “It’s dangerous to put a lid on the issue of historical memory. All countries that have done that have not fared particularly well.”

Daoud says he is untroubled by his popularity among a certain type of European reader.

“Should I stop my criticisms of Muslim society because my writings would serve the extreme right? Or should I continue, even if my writings serve the extreme right?” he said. “I’ve reflected a lot on that, and I reached a conclusion, which is that I have a responsibility to my daughter, to my wife, to the people around me. I should denounce the violence done to them, even if my words are appropriated.”

“Is my voice sometimes appropriated? Yes it is, some of the time. But is that a reason to shut up? No.”

“Chroniques,” an English translation of his newspaper columns, came out in October.

For the novelist Amina Mekahli, what matters most is the example Daoud sets for aspiring writers in a region whose literary talent is often overlooked.

“Kamel Daoud represents the hope of Algerians who have always lived in Algeria,” she said in a telephone interview from Algiers.

“He gives that hope — I see it today — especially among younger Algerian writers who now can say, ‘Yes, it’s possible.’ And that’s because of Kamel Daoud, who comes from a small village in the west.”

“There are people who criticize him very violently, but he also has many supporters,” said Hadjadj, his publisher. “Quite simply, he’s someone who’s read. That is the real accomplishment.”

Read more

France’s Macron admits to military’s systematic use of torture in Algeria war

Why halal meat generates so much controversy in Europe

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Moscow looks back with nostalgia: Bush was a steady hand while Soviet Union collapsed






President George H.W. Bush and Soviet counterpart Mikhail Gorbachev at a news conference on July 31, 1991 in Moscow concluding a summit dedicated to disarmament. (MIKE FISHER/AFP/GETTY IMAGES)

George H.W. Bush’s presidency will be forever linked with the Soviet Union’s collapse. But in Moscow, his death provoked an outpouring of nostalgia Saturday for an American leader who chose careful diplomacy over brinkmanship as the postwar order was thrown into disarray.

Russians recalled bygone days of summits, treaties and transatlantic statecraft — a contrast to a present tableau of disruptions and uncertainties from the Trump White House.

The news of Bush’s death arrived on the day that Russian President Vladimir Putin was scheduled to meet President Trump in Argentina — until a last-minute cancellation-by-tweet.

Putin made no mention of those circumstances that in his letter Saturday to the president’s son, former president George W. Bush. But his condolences, released by the Kremlin, underscored how Russian officials view the current chaotic state of U.S.-Russian relations.

[George H.W. Bush, president who led U.S. during end of Cold war, dies]

“George Bush Sr. was well aware of the importance of a constructive dialogue between the two major nuclear powers and took great efforts to strengthen Russian-American relations and cooperation in international security,” Putin said.

Konstantin Kosachyov, a Russian lawmaker who heads the foreign relations committee of Russia’s upper house of parliament, described the Bush era as “probably the peak of trust between our two states.”

And former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who marked an end to the Cold War together with Bush at their summit in Malta in December 1989, praised “the attention, amiability and ease in communication” of the entire Bush family.

“We had the opportunity to work together during the era of great changes,” Gorbachev said, according to the Interfax news agency. “It was a dramatic period, which required everyone to be tremendously responsible.”

Many Russians laud Bush for having treated their country with respect during the painful last years of the Soviet Union, drawing a contrast with what they often see as a disregard for Russian interests under the administrations that followed.

Bush and Gorbachev signed the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty in 1991, which drastically cut the U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals. Its successor treaty, New START, is due to expire in just over two years. The future of the arms-control groundwork laid by Gorbachev, Bush and his predecessor, President Ronald Reagan, is now increasingly in doubt. Trump has vowed to pull out of a 1987 treaty that limits intermediate and short-range nuclear weapons.

1 of 42 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × George H.W. Bush, 41st president of the United States, dies at 94 View Photos The father of the 43rd president was a steadfast force on the international stage for decades. Caption The father of the 43rd president was a steadfast force on the international stage for decades. William Coupon/� William Coupon/Corbis Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

[National day of mourning on Wednesday]

Although he praised Bush on Saturday, the 87-year-old Gorbachev had previously criticized the former president for not helping Russia get back on its feet as its economy reeled from the Soviet collapse. “There was a critical year during the Bush administration between 1989 and 1990 when substantial aid from the United States could have made a difference,” Gorbachev said in an interview for a 2011 book. “But Western leaders stood on the sidelines, remaining forever skeptical.”

In Germany, both Bush and Gorbachev are hailed for their key roles in bringing down the Berlin Wall. German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Saturday said Bush was “a true friend” of the German people. He “recognized the significance of that historic hour and gave us his trust and his support.”

Arab leaders in the Persian Gulf hailed his decision to lead the international coalition that drove Iraqi forces from Kuwait in 1991. Kuwait’s ruler, Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, said Bush never “forgot the Kuwaiti people and will remain in their memory,” according to the state-run KUNA news agency.

Neighboring Saudi Arabia described Bush as a “true friend.”

“The kingdom will never forget his resolve during the Gulf War of 1991,” said a statement from the Saudi Embassy in Washington.

British Prime Minister Theresa May called Bush “a great statesman” who had a pivotal role in “navigating a peaceful end to the Cold War he made the world a safer place for generations to come.”

Brian Murphy in Washington contributed to this report.

Read more

Bolton rebuffs Russian appeals to remain in key nuclear-arms pact

Kremlin touts Trump-Putin meeting — before Trump cancels it

Ukraine to impose martial law as Black Sea standoff with Russia intensifies

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Where are all the children? How Greece’s financial crisis led to a baby bust.








Chrysa Papigioti is one of fewer than 15 first-graders this year at Kalpaki Elementary School. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

Another school year was starting, with students arriving for their first day and lining up by grade, but when one mother dropped off her first-grader and watched him take his place, she wondered: Where were all the children?

“There were so few of them,” said Vasso Harisiadi, who had attended school in the same town. “I thought the yard would be full of kids.”

The newest class of children at Kalpaki Elementary was, instead, a reflection of Greece’s intensifying demographic troubles. For 2018, there were just 13 first-graders. A few students lived in villages where they were the only kids. A half-dozen other schools in the area had recently shuttered. More and more would-be parents were moving away or holding off on having children — because they were jobless or, like Kalpaki’s first-grade teacher, were making too little to afford it.

“At the moment, I can’t even consider kids,” said the teacher, Maria Bersou, 33, who earns $18,000 a year. “I can’t save money at all.”

The Greek economy no longer looms over Europe as a bailout-dependent, euro-imperiling danger, but the country is only beginning to contend with the next phase of peril: a baby bust that has raised the likelihood of a shrunken, weakened Greece for years to come.



The road overlooking the Greek village of Eleousa, between Ioannina and Kalpaki. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)



Teacher Maria Bersou, 33, checks her first-grade students’ schoolbooks. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

A first-grader corrects a mistake while practicing writing the Greek letter N. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

During the country’s deep and prolonged crash, which began in late 2009 and worsened in 2011 and beyond, an already-low birthrate ticked down further, as happened throughout the troubled economies of Southern Europe. Greece was also hit by a second factor, with half a million people fleeing the country, many of them young potential parents. Although Greece has been on the front lines of the migrant wave from the Middle East and North Africa, the majority of new arrivals have moved on to other parts of Europe, and the newcomers don’t make up for the losses.

As a result, the country’s recession has helped produce postwar Greece’s smallest generation — a group of young children who are now reaching elementary age, some arriving at schools wearing secondhand shoes and backpacks, and who are only at the earliest stages of grasping the daunting era they’ve been born into.

“The kids don’t know we used to be better off,” said Sotiria Papigioti, the mother of a first- and a second-grader at Kalpaki. “But when they ask for things, I tell them, ‘We’re not in the position to afford this.’ ”

Greece’s fertility rate, of about 1.35 births per woman, is among the lowest in Europe, and well below the rate of 2.1 needed for a stable population, not accounting for immigration. The fertility rate in Greece had been on the upswing before the crisis, hitting 1.5 births per woman in 2008. That progress has since been erased, and the birthrate has plummeted back toward the depths seen in the late 1990s and early 2000s.

But because of the exodus of would-be parents, the number of children born in Greece has dropped more dramatically than the fertility rate — reaching historic lows. In 2009, just before the fiercest parts of the crisis, there were 118,000 births in Greece. The number has since fallen steadily, becoming well eclipsed by the number of deaths. The birth total in 2017, 88,500, was the lowest on record.





Some countries, in the aftermath of economic crises, have seen a quick recovery in their fertility rates. But that is unlikely to happen in Greece, said Byron Kotzamanis, a demographer at the University of Thessaly, because even before the crisis the average woman in Greece wasn’t having children until age 31. Some women who postponed pregnancy during the recession have lost out on their chance entirely. As a result, Kotzamanis said, the recession has permanently reduced the size of the newest Greek generation — and has reduced the pool of parents in years to come.

“We’ll have fewer and fewer births in Greece over the next decades,” Kotzamanis said.





The demographic changes have darkened Greece’s prospects for the kind of revival seen after the United States’s Great Depression of the 1930s or the Asian financial crisis of the 1990s. Greece’s economy remains 25 percent smaller than it was a decade ago, and over the next six decades, the European statistics office estimates that Greece’s population of 10.7 million will decrease 32 percent — a rate eclipsed only by a few lower-income Eastern European countries that have seen their own drain of workers to wealthier parts of the continent.

For Greeks, the changes are playing out across the country. In the cafes of Athens, childless women in their 30s lament the lack of day-care options and the perpetually weak family support programs from a government now contending with austerity and pension costs. In the country’s more rural areas, would-be parents say that even if they were to give birth, they would struggle to find doctors, many of whom have moved abroad. Stefanos Chandakas, a gynecologist who founded a nongovernmental organization to help provide prenatal care, said that on one Greek island of 1,000 people, no children were born during at least a three-year span in the middle of the crisis.

“We have pictures from islands — they’ll have big parades, and there is only one child [participating] holding a flag,” Chandakas said.



Children play indoors on a rainy midmorning break at Kalpaki Elementary. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

At Kalpaki Elementary, a two-story schoolhouse off a main road in the country’s mountainous northwest, some of the routines look nearly unchanged from the time the school opened in 1996. The days start with a Greek Orthodox prayer. Children play soccer during breaks. Parents say the school has managed admirably during recent years, even while repeatedly cutting salaries and trimming spending by 30 percent. The principal says Kalpaki Elementary has been fortunate: Unlike some other schools, it didn’t have to cut off its heat.

Still, the demographic changes have left their mark both on the school and on the lives of the children. Twenty years ago, the school had 100 students. Today, because neighboring schools have closed, it draws students from a far wider area than before. But Kalpaki now has just 70 students in grades 1 through 6. Of that group, 20 are ethnic Albanians whose parents relocated to Greece mostly in the decades before the crisis. Another 20 children are newly arrived Syrians, whose families are living in a hillside camp while applying for asylum.

“What we see is a shrinking of the local population,” said the principal, Miltos Mastoras. “Without the Syrians, there would be half the number as 20 years ago.”



Teacher Maria Bersou helps Silaf, a Syrian refugee, with her Greek grammar. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)



Chrysa Papigioti, holding an umbrella, walks with classmates to their classroom. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

Bersou says she can’t save enough to think about having her own children. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

In the first-grade classroom, the students have learned this year about sounding out syllables, and triangles, and words to describe the weather in English. The walls have chipping paint, and the closest thing to a piece of technology is the radiator.

“We’re a little behind,” Bersou said.

She has sometimes wondered how the crisis might be shaping her 6- and 7-year-olds. At the beginning of the year, she had asked parents to buy a few basic supplies for their children. “You see their reactions when they get this stuff,” Bersou said of her students. “They get happy with a marker.”

The Greek children in Bersou’s class tend to come from families where at least one parent holds a relatively stable job — as a farmer, a police officer, a worker at a nearby bottling factory. These families are part of the group that can manage to afford children, even if just barely. Some of the first-graders’ parents are in their 40s, toward the end of their childbearing years, and said they couldn’t have waited out the crisis if they wanted to have kids.



Silaf, a Syrian refugee, writes the letter N in Greek on the whiteboard. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

Bersou is still waiting for the chance to feel steady enough to have children of her own — something she said she badly wants. She lives in the closest nearby city, 30 minutes away by car, where she’s built a life that is designed to feel temporary: a one-bedroom apartment, only a few friends. Her parents, who saw their own earnings reduced because of the crisis, still help her with her car payments and phone bills. As is becoming typical for young Greeks, she is waiting for something better, afraid she is treading water, and doubtful that much will improve.

“It affects your psyche,” Bersou said. “The years pass by, and it’s like: What have I done with my life?”

She tries to make up for it by doing what she can with her class. With her own money, she has bought construction paper for art projects and stickers to pass out to the most well-behaved students. This year, she has effectively taught two classes: one for the three Syrian first-graders who speak little Greek, the other for the remaining 10. Some days, she has brought in her own laptop and showed the students songs, short films or educational games.



Sotiria Papigioti kisses her daughter Chrysa's hand at the kitchen table at their home in Ado Pedina, Greece. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

One of Bersou’s quieter students is Chrysa Papigioti, who likes to draw and wants to be a veterinarian. Chrysa lives in a mountainside village 10 miles away from Kalpaki, where she and her brother are the only elementary-age children. Her father isn’t home much since he took a job as a traveling salesman, selling mattresses and other household items across western Greece — the only job he could find after a period of unemployment.

“She is good at doing her own thing,” her mother, Sotiria, said on a recent evening as she watched Chrysa build a shop out of Legos, constructing a counter and adding a cash register.

Chrysa and her brother aren’t allowed to watch the news, and their mother said they had never asked her a direct question about any hardship in the country. They didn’t yet need to know about the pay cuts she had taken in her job as a police officer, or about the large loan looming over the family, or about how she and so many other parents in the region had helped one another in finding hand-me-down clothing and other items for their children.

For Chrysa, learning about all that could wait.

“Kids don’t need to know everything,” Papigioti said. “I don’t want them to have bad thoughts. I want them to have a childhood.”



Chrysa Papigioti and her brother run toward their home as they return from school during a heavy rainstorm. (Loulou d'Aki for The Washington Post)

Elinda Labropoulou contributed to this report.

Read more

Battered for a decade, Greece feels an unexpected whiff of revival as Europe gains strength

Greece’s economic crisis is over only if you don’t live there

Aging Japan needs new blood. But a plan to allow more foreign workers sparks concerns.

As U.S. fertility rates collapse, finger-pointing and blame follow

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------In France, the pain behind the ‘yellow vest’ protests is felt mostly outside Paris








A demonstrator wearing a yellow jacket waves a French flag during a Dec. 1 demonstration in Paris. (Thibault Camus/AP)

The scenes from Paris have been arresting, as protesters marched down the Champs-Elysees, the grandest avenue in the city, hurling projectiles at police and being tear-gassed in return.

But it is in smaller French towns and cities such as this one, nestled in the foothills near the Swiss border, where the anger is most deeply felt.

People here are dependent on their cars, and so they are especially frustrated with rising diesel prices and a new gasoline tax — the issue at the core of the national “yellow vest” movement that has produced marches and roadblocks throughout France in recent weeks.

“Ask a Parisian — for him none of this is an issue, because he doesn’t need a car,” said Marco Pavan, 55, who said he has driven trucks and taxi cabs in and around Besancon for the better part of 30 years.

“We live on the side of a mountain,” Pavan said. “There’s no bus or train to take us anywhere. We have to have a car.”

Many people here are also keenly frustrated with their president. They see Emmanuel Macron as part of an elitist coterie that neither understands nor cares how they live, or how the decline of traditional industry has hollowed out their city and limited their prospects.

“And then there’s the disdain — he openly mocks people,” said Yves Rollet, 67, a Besancon retiree who was passing the time on Wednesday listening to a Bach concerto in his parked car. A yellow vest was visible through the windshield.

Rollet said he participated in last weekend’s protest because he was fed up with how Macron governs monarchically and is dismissive of poor and working people.

Rollet recalled an incident in September when Macron told a young, unemployed landscaper it should be easy to find a job. “If you’re willing and motivated, in hotels, cafes and restaurants, construction, there’s not a single place I go where they don’t say they’re looking for people,” the French president, a former investment banker, said to the young man.

“We called him the ‘president of the rich’ from the beginning,” Rollet said. Noting how often Macron, who ran as a centrist, employs the phrase “at the same time” in his speeches, Rollet added, “Well, he’s ‘at the same time’ the president of the right and the president of the right.”

On Saturday, roughly 75,000 people took to the streets across the country in a third act of the protest. In Paris, yellow vest supporters torched cars, attacked shop windows and clashed with police. Local authorities announced that at least 92 people were injured in Paris, including 14 police officers.

In Buenos Aires for a Group of 20 summit, Macron vowed that violent protesters would be “held responsible for their acts.”



People participate in a road blockade in Dole. (Sebastien Bozon/AFP/Getty Images)

A “yellow vest” protester takes part in a road blockade in Dole, near Besancon, in eastern France. (Sebastien Bozon/AFP/Getty Images)

For his part, Macron last week sought to be empathetic, and more humble, while also insisting he will not cave to violent demands or revoke the gas tax — a product of the country’s climate change commitments. “One cannot be on Monday for the environment and on Tuesday against the increase of fuel prices,” he said in a long-planned speech on energy.

Macron acknowledged French policy has not done much to address the expense of living in big French cities other than to encourage people to live further out and buy cars.

“They are not the perpetuators of this situation, they are simply the first victims . . . ” he said. “We must, therefore, listen to the protests of social alarm, but we must not do so by renouncing our responsibilities for today and tomorrow, because there’s also an environmental alarm.”

Since his election in May 2017, Macron has been one of the world’s leading advocates for action to combat climate change. He tried, unsuccessfully, to convince President Trump to remain within the 2015 Paris climate accords, and he hosted a second major climate summit in Paris in December 2017.



Protesters wearing yellow vests (gilets jaunes) set cars and barricades on fire as they clash with riot police on Avenue Foch near the Arc de Triomphe during a demonstration over high fuel prices on the Champs-Elysees in Paris on Dec. 1. (Etienne Laurant/EPA-EFE/REX/Shutterstock)

France has more diesel cars than any other country in Europe. Higher taxes on diesel have been part of the climate bargain from the beginning and have also featured in global guidelines for years. Paris and the surrounding suburbs, meanwhile, have moved to ban older model diesel cars from their roads. And Macron’s government committed France to banning the sales of all gasoline-powered cars by 2040.

Macron, however, has been criticized for doing less on climate change than he promised. His environment minister quit in disappointment in August, saying he did not “want to give the illusion that my presence in the government signifies that we are answering these problems properly.”

Now, Macron’s opponents on both the far-left and the far-right have lent their support to the yellow vest movement, making the protests easier to dismiss as a politicized spectacle. Skeptics also highlight a perceived dominance of white men among the yellow vests, and the movement’s leaders refused to meet with France’s prime minister once they learned the meeting would not be filmed and broadcast live.

Although Macron’s approval rating has fallen to record lows, that can also be discounted by the historical trend of the French typically turning against their presidents by this point in the term.

As Macron put it in a Der Spiegel interview last year, “The French want to elect a king, but they would like to be able to overthrow him whenever they want. . . . You have to be prepared to be disparaged, insulted and mocked — that is in the French nature.”

But sociologists and anti-poverty advocates warn some of the frustration underlying the yellow vest protests is real — the ­inevitable result of decades of social fracture between rural France, increasingly devoid of resources, and France’s prosperous large­ cities.

“In these territories marked by the absence of a tomorrow, there’s a form of postindustrial despair that’s now gnawing at the middle and working classes who suffered the brunt of the brutal crisis [of] 2008 and the ensuing budget cuts,” said Niels Planel, a poverty reduction consultant who has done work in the region.

“To give one example, a young student who just finished her bachelor’s told me that she couldn’t stay in her home region because, in her city, ‘there is nothing,’ ” Planel said. “Faced with austerity, city councilors must always do more with less and less, all while facing the growing discontent of their constituents.”

Although France has one of the most extensive railway networks in the world, the map looks somewhat like a wheel: All the spokes originate in midsize provincial cities and converge on Paris at the center. You can get to the capital from Besancon by fast train in about 2½ hours. But much of the surrounding area is relatively unserved by public transport. Without a car, a basic commute would take hours, often along a circuitous route.

“It’s important to understand that this movement of ‘yellow vests’ is not at all an opposition to the environment,” said Benoit Coquard, an expert at the National Institute for Agronomic Research in Dijon, which belongs to the same administrative region as Besancon.



Protesters wearing yellow vests (gilets jaunes) clash with riot police in a cloud of tear gas under the Arc de Triomphe during a demonstration over high fuel prices on the Champs-Elysees in Paris on Dec. 1. (Yoan Valat/EPA-EFE/REX/Shutterstock)

The issue, Coquard said, is a perceived double standard. “What is disputed is that drivers from the middle and lower classes are made to pay, but that in their eyes we don’t ask enough of the big companies and the rich, who also pollute the most because they often take airplanes.”

A common refrain among protesters is fuel prices and other social charges have increased at the same time as Macron’s administration has axed France’s famous wealth tax.

Pavan, the driver, agreed: “France has to be conscious of the environment, yes, but it’s a change everybody has to make — not just working people.”

“Why do the little people have to pay, but the big dogs pay nothing? The people have a feeling of injustice, and I don’t know how this will end.”

Read more

France’s climate change commitments trigger rising diesel prices and street protests

France’s Macron reshuffles his cabinet in effort to quell political instability

While commemorating WWI, Macron auditions to be the leader of Europe

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------The wildly ambitious plan of Mexico’s President AMLO








Andrés Manuel López Obrador waves to supporters at Zócalo square in Mexico City on July 2 after winning Mexico's presidential election. (Pedro Pardo/AFP/Getty Images)

MEXICO CITY — He is Mexico’s Bernie Sanders, according to his foreign fans. No, say critics — he is more like a Mexican Hugo Chávez.

In fact, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, Mexico’s new leftist president, is pretty different from both the American senator and Venezuela’s late socialist leader. But like them, he is a man with a plan.

A big plan.

To López Obrador, known as AMLO, the six-year term beginning Saturday isn’t just another presidency. It is the “Fourth Transformation” — following independence from Spain, the mid-19th century political reforms and the Mexican Revolution.

He is promising to end corruption. To transform the “neoliberal” economic model. To pacify a country with soaring violence — bringing in Pope Francis to help if needed.

It might be tempting to laugh off some of his proposals. Free Internet all over the place! A train linking the Atlantic and Pacific coasts! Two million acres planted with trees!

But, in a country fed up with politics as usual, he won a landslide victory.

Sure, he may be a megalomaniac, but his approach is seductive, said Jesús Silva-Herzog Márquez, a political scientist at the Tecnológico de Monterrey university.

“Because for a long time we were in a consensus — which many people in the world are sick of — that says we can’t do anything,” he said. Big social programs are impossible. The economy won’t allow them. Progress will only come little by little.

“López Obrador says, of course we can achieve it. … We are going to convert ourselves into this great power of the 21st century,” said Silva-Herzog Márquez.

Economists question the new president’s assurances that he can pay for his ideas with savings from cutting corruption and official salaries and perks. Details are not exactly López Obrador’s strong suit.

But the man has a plan. Here are some highlights of what he has promised:

Infrastructure projects

Build a “Mayan Train” connecting five states in the southeast.

Upgrade an old rail line to create a transportation link between the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico.

Pave 300 roads in the poor southern state of Oaxaca.

Provide Internet coverage nationwide, with free access in schools, hospitals and public spaces.

Social benefits

Double monthly payments to the elderly.

Provide regular financial assistance to a million disabled people.

Education

Create 100 public universities during this presidential term.

Eliminate entrance exams for universities.

Provide a monthly payment to students in 10th to 12th grades to lower the dropout rate.

Economy

Raise the salaries of teachers, doctors, nurses, police officers and soldiers.

Double the minimum wage in the area near the U.S. border.

Offer paid apprenticeships for 2.3 million young people.

Make the Mexican economy grow at least 4 percent annually.

Don’t spend more money than what the government receives.

Government

Decentralize the government, moving ministries to different states.

Turn the presidential residence into a park, and sell the presidential jet.

Cut officials’ salaries (including the president’s).

Get rid of the president’s security force, the equivalent of the U.S. Secret Service.

Energy

Freeze gas prices for three years.

Revive the fortunes of the state oil company.

Security-------------------Pompeo and Mattis criticized for defending U.S. alliance with Saudi Arabia






Secretary of State Mike Pompeo talks to reporters after a closed briefing for senators on Saudi Arabia. (Michael Reynolds/EPA-EFE/REX/Shutterstock)

The Trump administration’s determination to maintain warm ties with the Saudi royal family came into clear focus this week when Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis showed up at the Senate.

Senators wanted to know more about the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi and U.S. support for Saudi airstrikes in Yemen.

Instead, Pompeo and Mattis kept pivoting to the threat posed by Iran.

A smile frozen on his face, Pompeo deflected a reporter’s question on why the CIA director had not appeared to brief senators on intelligence implicating Saudi Arabia’s crown prince in Khashoggi’s killing.

“I was asked to be here, and here I am,” Pompeo replied. When pressed again, he repeated the sentence almost verbatim: “I was asked to be here, and I’m here.”

Pompeo’s unwillingness to provide a smoother, more direct answer crystallized how awkward it has become to maintain a solid U.S.-Saudi relationship as Congress threatens to cut off military funding for the country.

The administration considers Saudi Arabia an important and influential ally needed to push back against Iran, keep oil prices low and support the administration’s still-unveiled peace plan for Israelis and Palestinians.

But the explanations did not sit well with many senators seeking straightforward answers to their concerns about the slaying of the journalist and the crisis in Yemen, which the United Nations has called the world’s worst humanitarian disaster.

One senator summarized the hour with Pompeo and Mattis behind closed doors as “that horrible meeting.”

Both men summarized positions already laid down by President Trump. But their defense of Saudi Arabia’s “strategic importance” to U.S. interests turned a harsh light on them.

The different emphasis they placed on the relationship shielded Mattis from criticism more than Pompeo. In his prepared remarks, the Pentagon chief cited the “twin requirements” of holding Khashoggi’s killers accountable and “the reality of Saudi Arabia as a necessary strategic partner.” In his opening statement, as released by the State Department, Pompeo did not mention Khashoggi, whose killing, he wrote, has intensified “Capitol Hill caterwauling and media pile-on.”

Richard Fontaine, a former U.S. official and adviser to late Republican senator John McCain, said Mattis had articulated a more nuanced position than Pompeo.

Mattis “has made clear which end he comes down on, but it seems to me he’s also made clear that he’s for more tough love with the Saudis,” Fontaine said, “whereas Pompeo’s message is just love.”

The Khashoggi case has prompted some of the toughest criticism Pompeo has received since stepping down as CIA director to become secretary of state in April. When Trump suddenly dispatched him to Riyadh in October two weeks after Khashoggi was killed in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, cameras caught him smiling broadly while shaking hands with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

Nancy McEldowney, a former head of the State Department’s Foreign Service Institute that trains diplomats, compared Pompeo to a man walking behind an elephant with a shovel to clean up the mess.

“He had no answer to give,” she said. “He couldn’t or wouldn’t speak the truth.”

The tension between the Senate and the White House will return to Capitol Hill in coming days after the Senate voted 63 to 37 to advance a resolution terminating U.S. military support for the war in Yemen. Trump opposes the measure, and many legislative hurdles lie ahead, but it represents a direct challenge to the White House’s ambition to keep doing business as usual with the Saudis.

The administration is unlikely to punish Mohammed personally with sanctions, as some lawmakers have proposed.

“There’s no White House green light to take any sanctions against the crown prince himself,” said Bruce Riedel, a Middle East analyst with the Brookings Institution. “So Pompeo is stuck. They’re all stuck. We’re now engaged in a coverup of a coverup.”

Riedel said the war in Yemen hurts Saudi Arabia more than it does Iran, the kingdom’s primary rival in the region. Iran’s cost is minimal compared with the $50 billion Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates spend each year on airstrikes against Iranian-backed Houthi rebels.

Thousands of Yemenis, including many civilians, have died in the war. Yemen is in the midst of a cholera epidemic, and the United Nations has said the country is on the verge of famine.

Trump has cited arms sales to the Saudis as one reason to maintain close ties. The administration received a boost to the president’s claim of major U.S. profits from arms sales to Saudi Arabia. Last week, after a nearly two-month delay, Saudi Arabia signed acceptance documents for a $15 billion purchase of a missile defense system, the largest component of what Trump has claimed were $110 billion worth of sales negotiated during his 2017 visit to Riyadh. The deal brings the total of deals actually signed under the current administration to about $30 billion, although most were initiated under former president Barack Obama.

The newest agreement for 44 Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) launchers, missiles and related equipment follows earlier sales of anti-ballistic missiles, helicopters, tanks, ships, weapons and training.

Nicholas Burns, a former U.S. diplomat, said the administration should tell Mohammed, the country’s de facto ruler, to seek a cease-fire with Iran and the Houthi rebels, perhaps offering Pompeo as a broker.

Mohammed “is causing a lot of trouble for the U.S.,” Burns said, referring to Khashoggi, Yemen and Qatar, which Saudi Arabia is leading an embargo against and where it is threatening to dig a canal that would turn the peninsula nation into an island. “Trump should lean on him to stop the damage he is doing to us,” he said.

Karen DeYoung and Karoun Demirjian contributed to this article.-------------------3 women and their toddlers are steps from the U.S. border but months from the dream








Cindy Romero, from Honduras, walks with her son, Jason Velasquez, 2, as they wait with friends at the beach Nov. 29, 2018, in Tijuana, Mexico. They were weighing whether to cross the border illegally at the beach to ask for asylum. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

When it was her turn to slip through the border fence, Cindy Romero dropped her son’s stuffed panda on the ground and looked through the barbed wire, toward the distant lights of San Diego.

A few feet away, the Pacific Ocean crashed into the metal pylons that divide the United States from Mexico. Romero, 24, and her son, Jason, 2, were small enough to fit between them. So were the two other women, each with her own toddler, who huddled next to them. A few young men joined. No Border Patrol agents were in sight.

“Let’s go,” Romero said.

The Trump administration has made it harder than ever for asylum seekers to get inside the United States to file their applications. With the migrant caravan’s arrival here, the waiting list in Tijuana has more than 5,000 names. U.S. immigration officials agree to meet with no more than 100 migrants per day, claiming that they do not have the resources to process more.

Increasingly, those seeking refuge in the United States are not willing to wait here as their living conditions deteriorate, motivating the kind of illegal border crossings the White House says it is trying to deter. Almost nightly now here at the beach, groups approach the fence and try to find their way to the sand on the other side, climbing the pylons or sneaking through the wire mesh. Even here, at one of the most high-profile stretches of border fence, they repeatedly find a way through.



Cindy Romero shields Jason from a cold Pacific wind as they wait with friends at the beach Nov. 29. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

When the three women arrived in Tijuana with the caravan in late November, they learned that it would take two or three months to enter the United States legally. That would mean months of sleeping in tents that flood in the rain. There was no guarantee of food or security. Romero and her son were tear-gassed by U.S. agents when migrants rushed the border last month.

So Wednesday morning, Romero walked with Marta Chavez, 23, and her daughter, Priscilla, 2, and Gisela Gadira, 19, and her son, Cesar, 2, for two hours from northern Tijuana to the beach, where they had been told it was easier to cross the border illegally. If they could make it 40 yards north of the border fence, where U.S. soil officially began, they could turn themselves in to American officials and start the asylum process. It was a right the Trump administration said it would eliminate but which remains in effect.

They waited until the sun set. They watched as, right in front of them, a woman with long hair, wearing what looked like a purple sweatshirt and sweatpants, sneaked through the border fence and turned herself in. When it was her turn, Romero’s eyes widened. “It’s pure adrenaline running through us right now,” she said.



Cindy Romero, left, carries her son as Marta Chavez and her daughter, Priscilla, 2, and Gisela Gadira, 19, and her son, Cesar, 2, walk away from the border fence in Tijuana across from San Diego on Nov. 29. (Kevin Sieff/The Washington Post)

Then a Border Patrol truck charged toward the fence, its headlights on the group. An agent got out of the car running toward them with a flashlight in his hand. Gadira was stuck between two layers of fencing. Romero yelled at him in Spanish: “Don’t you have kids?”

“Yes,” he said.

The group stepped away from the fence. A few hours passed. They stared at the U.S. side of the border, lit by a floodlight. Another agent arrived carrying a large gun. Then another Border Patrol truck came and turned on its siren. Then another agent came on a four-wheeler.

The children were cold and wet. A few feet away, the obelisk marking the place where Mexican and American officials drew the border in 1849 was slick with rain.

“We’ll try tomorrow,” Romero said.

***



The border fence between the United States and Mexico, which ends in the Pacific Ocean, is lit by floodlights on the U.S. side Nov. 29. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

The next morning at 7, the women walked to the beach carrying their children on their shoulders, covered in blankets. It was foggy. They couldn’t see any Border Patrol agents.

“Maybe it’s easier now,” Gadira said.

She tugged at the wire fencing, which appeared to have been reinforced after migrants slipped through the previous day. Then a Border Patrol truck appeared. The women stepped away again and walked under a concrete overhang.

They had met in Jalisco, in western Mexico, more than halfway through the caravan’s journey, and learned fragments about each other as they traveled. Under their donated winter jackets, each carried her birth certificate shielded in plastic shopping bags, the first thing she would show Border Patrol agents after turning herself in.

Romero said her ex-boyfriend was a member of the 18th Street gang, one of Honduras’s most dangerous criminal groups. She said he was sentenced to life in prison for multiple murders. “He wasn’t always like that. We got together when he was 15 and I was 14. But after two years, he started getting involved in the gang, and then he just kept getting more involved.”

He had been chasing her from her hometown of Chamelecon, outside the Honduran city of San Pedro Sula, ever since he learned that she was pregnant with another man’s baby in 2015, she said. “Once he found out I was pregnant, he said I was done,” she said. She fled to southern Mexico with her son, and when the migrant caravan arrived there in October, she began traveling north with the group.



Mexican police round up migrants at the beach near the border fence Nov. 29 to return them to the Tijuana sports complex being used as a shelter. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

Chavez is from San Marcos, Guatemala, where she said a few of her friends from school had been killed in gang violence. Then she, too, had been threatened in the past few years, she said.

Gadira was from San Pedro Sula and was the quietest. No one was sure exactly what she was fleeing. “I don’t like to talk about those things,” she said.

They all had relatives in the United States. Romero said she had an aunt and uncle in New York who had qualified for asylum because of threats the family had received. Their children shared the same stuffed panda, which Romero’s son called El Peluche, or teddy bear. The women looked for ways to entertain themselves, flicking through Facebook pictures of their friends, rattled by their own impatience.

“Honestly, the biggest reason I don’t want to wait here is because I’m bored,” Chavez said.

“I’ll cut that fence with a knife if I have to,” Romero said.

They had discussed the barrage of rumors in the camp, trying to discern what was true. Some said President Trump was going to close the border for weeks. Others said there was a plan to suddenly allow thousands of asylum seekers to enter. There were tales of people who had found secret, unmonitored places to cross the border. There were dangerous rumors about the women, too, including that they were prostitutes.



Members of the U.S. military lay razor-bearing concertina wire to secure the area between the layers of border fencing near the beach Nov. 29. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

The idea of staying in the shelter for another two or three months horrified them. They had not heard about a new policy, called “Remain in Mexico,” that might force them to stay in Mexico even longer, during the length of the asylum process.

While the women stood under the shelter, a 45-year-old man in a brown jacket approached them with another rumor. His name was Jorge Rocha and he had climbed over the border fence at the beach a few months ago. He had been held at a San Diego detention center until a few days earlier.

“I’m telling you, if you try to cross illegally, you’re going to be detained for at least a month,” he said. “Wait until this all calms down.”

The women listened but did not respond.

They could hear the sound of construction nearby. Just a few yards away from the beach, dozens of U.S. soldiers had arrived to reinforce the fence, carrying an enormous bundle of razor-bearing concertina wire.

Romero had grown quiet.

“Maybe we just need to wait for our numbers to be called,” she said. “They’ve made it too hard.”

***



Marta Chavez, who is from Guatemala, waits with her daughter, Priscilla, at the beach Nov. 29. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

On Thursday night, Chavez returned to the beach alone. Romero and Gadira had decided that it was too rainy and cold. They returned to the downtown shelter, at least for a few hours.

While Chavez shared a pizza with a friend at a restaurant at the beach, a few Mexican police trucks arrived. Officers rounded up about a dozen migrants who had been planning to cross the border. The migrants were loaded into the trucks and taken back to the main migrant shelter.

“I’m not going back to that place,” Chavez said.

The waiter looked at her.

“This is a touristic area, and there have been complaints against the migrants,” the waiter said. “They can’t just stay here and do whatever they want.”

In a crowd of strangers, Chavez grew quiet about her plans. She mouthed: “We’re going to cross.” But she did not budge. Her daughter ran around the restaurant until the waiter gave her a strawberry. With the new concertina wire, and the seemingly nonstop Border Patrol presence, was crossing even possible here?

After Chavez returned to a migrant hostel near the beach, and as the rain poured, another group approached the fence. One migrant, who goes by the name El Paisa, filmed them as they slipped through.

“Pass, pass,” he says on the video, and about six people run through, toward the headlights of a Border Patrol truck.

“Our Honduran friends are crossing to the United States,” he says. “Let’s see if they force them back, or if they give them political asylum.”



Marta Chavez carries daughter Priscilla at the beach Nov. 29. (Carolyn Van Houten/The Washington Post)

Read more:

Mexico begins moving caravan migrants but faces distrust

Faced with months-long wait, some caravan migrants decide to go home

How the migrant caravan become so big

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news-------------------Cohen seeks ‘time served’ prison sentence, says again his crimes were meant to protect Trump






Lawyers for former Trump personal attorney Michael Cohen argued Friday that their client should not go to prison for the criminal charges to which he has pleaded guilty, and linked much of his wrongdoing to his desire to protect and support President Trump.

In a late-night court filing, lawyers for the onetime Trump loyalist wrote that their client was a changed man who was eager to share his knowledge with law enforcement and mindful that he would have to “begin his life virtually anew.”

Their filing detailed what they said was Cohen’s extensive cooperation, including seven voluntary interviews with the team of special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, as well as meetings with federal prosecutors in New York, representatives of the New York attorney general’s office and officials with the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance, which are conducting wide-ranging probes into Trump’s campaign and his charitable foundation.

Friday’s filing directly connected Cohen’s wrongdoing to Trump. Cohen’s lawyers asserted, for example, that Cohen paid off women to keep quiet about alleged affairs with the president to stop them from “disseminating narratives that would adversely affect the Campaign and cause personal embarrassment.” And they said Cohen lied about efforts to finalize a Trump business project in Moscow during the heart of the campaign because he knew it was Trump’s “strongly voiced mantra” to minimize the investigation into connections between his campaign and the Kremlin.

Trump has repeatedly said he had no business dealings in Russia, tweeting in July 2016, “For the record, I have ZERO investments in Russia,” and telling reporters in January 2017 that he had no deals there because he had “stayed away.”

In fact, lawyers for Cohen alleged that he talked with a Russian official about a project there in January 2016 and had other, unspecified communications that continued as late as June 2016. They alleged Cohen kept Trump in the loop, and Trump and Cohen discussed the possibility of travel to Russia in the summer of 2016, with Cohen even taking steps to clear dates. That would have been just as Trump was clinching his party’s presidential nomination.

A lawyer for Trump and a White House spokesman did not return messages seeking comment Saturday. Trump last week accused Cohen of lying to spare himself time in prison — an allegation that is sure to be fueled by Cohen’s request for a punishment that includes no time behind bars.

Cohen had pleaded guilty in August to five counts of tax evasion, one count of making a false statement to a bank and two campaign finance violations, admitting that he and the chief executive of a media company worked in the summer of 2016 to keep an individual from publicly disclosing information that could hurt Trump’s campaign. Two women had alleged extramarital affairs with Trump, which the president denies.

On Thursday, Cohen added an additional guilty plea, admitting that he lied to Congress about an ultimately unsuccessful effort to build a Trump building in Russia. He is expected to be sentenced on Dec. 12, and prosecutors have yet to submit their own recommendation.

[Michael Cohen, Trump’s former lawyer, pleads guilty to lying to Congress about Moscow project]

According to Cohen’s sentencing submission, federal guidelines in the first case call for him to spend as many as five years and three months in jail. His lawyers, though, disputed those calculations and argued that what they described as his remarkable cooperation warranted a sentence of “time-served.” Cohen has spent no time in jail outside of routine processing related to his convictions.

Cohen, unlike most defendants, did not enter into a traditional cooperation agreement so his sentencing would not be delayed, though he nonetheless met — and expected he would continue to meet — with law enforcement agencies that wanted to talk to him, his lawyers wrote. And he did so mindful of “regular public reports referring to the President’s consideration of pardons” and as Trump launched a “raw, full-bore attack” on the investigations which Cohen was aiding, they wrote.

“He could have fought the government and continued to hold to the party line, positioning himself perhaps for a pardon or clemency, but, instead — for himself, his family, and his country — he took personal responsibility for his own wrongdoing and contributed, and is prepared to continue to contribute, to an investigation that he views as thoroughly legitimate and vital,” Cohen’s lawyers wrote.

The sentencing submission traced Cohen’s background and sought to play down the non-Trump related charges to which Cohen pleaded guilty. But more notable than that were the allegations it leveled against the president.

Cohen’s lawyers argued both the campaign finance violations and the lies to Congress were a product of his “fierce loyalty” to Trump, whom they at times referred to as “Client-1.” They said Cohen’s conduct was “intended to benefit Client-1, in accordance with Client-1’s directives.”

“Michael regrets that his vigor in promoting Client-1’s interests in the heat of political battle led him to abandon good judgment and cross legal lines,” Cohen’s lawyers wrote.

They alleged Cohen was assured by Trump that he would be reimbursed for paying the lawyer of one of the women accusing him of an affair, and that Cohen “kept his client contemporaneously informed and acted on his client’s instructions.”

Similarly, Cohen’s lawyers wrote that when Cohen lied to Congress about the Trump Tower project, he did so essentially because he knew what the president wanted. The lawyers alleged that as Cohen’s own lawyer prepared his responses to congressional committees, Cohen “remained in close and regular contact with White House-based staff and legal counsel to Client-1.”

“As such, he was (a) fully aware of Client-1’s repeated disavowals of commercial and political ties between himself and Russia, as well as the strongly voiced mantra of Client-1 that investigations of such ties were politically motivated and without evidentiary support,” Cohen's lawyers wrote.

They added that Cohen knew Trump wanted to “dismiss and minimize the merit” of Mueller’s probe into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia, and that Trump’s public spokespeople were trying to say that any contact with Russian representatives had ceased by February 2016.-------------------Ex-Justice Dept. employee admits to aiding lobbying effort meant to shut down Malaysian corruption probe






Protesters in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, hold portraits of financier Low Taek Jho, who was charged by the Justice Department on Nov. 1 in a money laundering and bribery scheme. (Sadiq Asyraf/AP)

A former Justice Department employee admitted Friday to aiding a plot to secretly fund a lobbying effort involving a prominent rapper and an investment firm owner that prosecutors said was aimed at ending U.S. law enforcement’s investigation of a Malaysian government corruption scandal.

George Higginbotham, 46, who worked as a senior congressional affairs specialist for the Justice Department from July 2016 to August 2018, pleaded guilty to illicitly facilitating the transfer of tens of millions of dollars into the United States to finance the lobbying effort, which unsuccessfully tried to shut down the ongoing probe into embezzlement and bribery surrounding a Malaysian state development fund, according to court filings.

At least one participant in the lobbying campaign contemplated what to say in meetings with unnamed Trump administration officials, according to the filings.

Among the players, the Justice Department said in court papers, was onetime Fugees member and rapper Prakazrel “Pras” Michel, though he has not been publicly charged with any crimes. The filing also alleged that an investment firm owner who had complained “his company was the victim of a cyber hacking incident” took part in the lobbying effort. Prosecutors did not name the man, whom they identified as “Individual No. 1,” but the description of him in court papers matches that of veteran GOP fundraiser Elliott Broidy, who earlier this year filed a lawsuit about his hacked emails. The Washington Post previously reported Broidy was under investigation in the case.

According to the filing, Michel hired Individual No. 1’s wife’s law firm for advice on the Malaysia matter. Broidy’s lawyers told the Wall Street Journal in March that the musician hired the firm of Broidy’s wife, Robin Rosenzweig.

Defense attorneys for Higginbotham did not immediately return a message seeking comment. A representative for Michel declined to comment.

Chris Clark, a lawyer for Broidy, said, “We have no comment. As far as I know, my client is not named in any way in the documents. Please use great care in any assumptions you make which sound baseless.”

During the 2016 campaign, Broidy, a Los Angeles-based investor, helped corral big donors to support President Trump’s campaign. After the election, he was appointed to serve as a national deputy chairman for the Republican National Committee.

In April, Broidy resigned from his RNC position in the wake of a report that he had paid a former Playboy model $1.6 million in exchange for her silence about a sexual affair. Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen — another RNC fundraiser — helped arrange the settlement, Broidy acknowledged at the time.

[GOP fundraiser Broidy under investigation for alleged effort to sell government influence, people familiar with probe say]

The sprawling Malaysia bribery case — which has come to be known by the shorthand “1MDB” for the development fund over which it is focused — has drawn many headlines over the years as investigators have traced the money they believe was pilfered by Malaysian government officials and their associates.

Prosecutors in the United States notably sought to seize New York City penthouses, Hollywood and Beverly Hills mansions, a private jet and even some future proceeds from the award-winning movie “The Wolf of Wall Street” that they said were connected to the case, and authorities in Malaysia charged their country’s former prime minister with money laundering.

More recently, investigators have appeared to be focusing on activities aimed at influencing the posture of U.S. officials toward the case. In a complaint filed Friday seeking nearly $74 million in forfeiture, prosecutors alleged that a Malaysian businessman named Low Taek Jho had funneled tens of millions of dollars to the United States to lobby high-level government officials to influence the ongoing investigations and related proceedings over whether his assets could be seized. Low and others were indicted in New York on Nov. 1.

Higginbotham, the Justice Department employee, admitted that he assisted that effort — though he had no role in the investigation, and the department said in a statement that he “failed to influence any aspect” of it.

Higginbotham also admitted that the lobbying had another purpose — to persuade high-level U.S. government officials to have a foreign national removed from the United States and sent back to his country of origin.

The Justice Department did not identify that person in Friday’s filing, but investigators have been scrutinizing a plan that Broidy allegedly developed to try to persuade the Trump government to extradite Chinese exile Guo Wengui back to his home country, The Post previously reported.

The New York Times previously reported that Broidy drafted a plan to enlist Emirati officials to pressure the United States to turn over Guo. In a statement to The Times, Broidy said he “never had a strategy or plan regarding Mr. Guo nor was there any compensation given or even discussed.”

Prosecutors alleged that Higginbotham, with Michel, opened accounts at U.S. financial institutions to funnel Low’s money to the United States. The DOJ official then crafted fake loan and consulting documents “in order to deceive banks and other regulators about the true source and purpose of the money” for the lobbying effort. They said Michel then disbursed the funds for the lobbying effort.

Individual No. 1, prosecutors alleged, refused to be paid directly by Low, but ultimately agreed to take about $8 million from Michel, who prosecutors said acted as an “intermediary.”

They alleged that in March 2017, Low offered to pay another $75 million “success fee” as part of a contract with the law firm of Individual No. 1’s wife, if the 1MDB case was “resolved” within 180 days. Details of those negotiations were previously reported by the Wall Street Journal.

Clark, Broidy’s attorney, told The Post in August that “Broidy has never agreed to work for, been retained by nor been compensated by any foreign government for any interaction with the United States government, ever. Any implication to the contrary is a lie.”

According to details in court papers, the investment firm owner allegedly offered the lobbying campaign strategic advice and the use of his name.

In August 2017, for example, Individual No. 1 received from his assistant apparent talking points for a Malaysian official who expected to meet with high-level U.S. officials, court papers indicate. One talking point, prosecutors said, advised the Malaysian to tell the U.S. official he knew Individual No. 1.

The talking points contemplated sending Malaysia’s attorney general ahead of a planned visit by the Malaysian official in September. That month, then-Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak visited the White House.

Clark has previously told the Wall Street Journal that at no time did Broidy, his wife, “or anyone acting on their behalf, discuss Mr. Low’s case with President Trump, any member of his staff, or anyone at the U.S. Department of Justice.”

He said Michel had engaged Rosenzweig’s firm “to provide strategic advice as part of a broader team to Mr. Low.”

Rosalind S. Helderman contributed to this report.-------------------DHS asks Pentagon to extend the military’s Mexico border deployment through at least January






The Department of Homeland Security asked the Pentagon on Friday for a 45-day extension of the U.S. military presence at the Mexico border, a request that would stretch the deployment until at least the end of January.

The Defense Department is expected to agree to the extension in the coming days, well ahead of the mission’s current expiration date, which is Dec. 15. Pentagon officials have said some of the 6,000 active-duty personnel stationed along the border in Texas, Arizona and California would be brought home and replaced by other units.

President Trump ordered the deployment to preempt the arrival of thousands of Central American migrants traveling in caravan groups and seeking to enter the United States. His administration has characterized the migrants, who have concentrated along Mexico’s border with California, as a grave security threat.

“Given the ongoing threat at our Southern border — today the Department of Homeland Security submitted a request for assistance to the Department of Defense to extend its support through January 31, 2019,” DHS spokeswoman Katie Waldman said in a statement.

“This request refines support to ensure it remains aligned with the current situation, the nature of the mission, and [Customs and Border Protection] operational requirements,” she said.

Pentagon spokesman Jamie Davis confirmed the request.

[Trump expected to extend troop deployment along the border]

Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen has also sent a memo to the departments of Justice, State and Interior, among others, requesting backup at the border from their law enforcement personnel. The unusual request, first reported Friday by Politico, would potentially deputize forest rangers, U.S. marshals and other federal officers to work as auxiliary immigration agents.

A Justice Department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to speak on the record, confirmed Friday that the Drug Enforcement Administration would provide 33 agents, and that the U.S. Marshals Service is sending 11 of its staff to the border in California. Their precise role was not immediately clear, but an official said they would lend assistance at the request of Customs and Border Protection.

U.S. marshals and DEA agents already have a large and active presence along the Mexico border as part of their routine law enforcement duties.

“If the need arises for their services, they’ll be there,” the Justice Department official said. “The caravan presents a unique situation.”

DHS officials said Nielsen’s request did not indicate how many law enforcement officers the agency is seeking, but described the call for help as a unremarkable measure . “In line with the President’s direction and given the very real threat we face at the border from potential mass migration actions — of course, DHS has reached out for assistance from partners across the federal government to defend our sovereignty, protect our frontline men and women, and secure our border,” Waldman said in a statement.

[U.S. prepares for additional confrontations, shutdowns at Mexico border]

Trump is the first president in a nearly a century to use large numbers of active-duty military personnel at the border, as previous administrations have typically called upon National Guard units to back up U.S. agents during moments of heightened threats or surging migration.

Critics of the administration say the border assignment risks undermining the military’s readiness for more-important missions abroad, and that National Guard troops would be much more appropriate for a domestic mission in support of federal law enforcement.

U.S. law generally prohibits military personnel from performing law enforcement duties on U.S. soil, and the troops stationed there now are supposed to support Customs and Border Protection, not make arrests or detain migrants.

After clashes along the border fence Sunday, DHS officials saw vindication of Trump’s decision to call out the military in the scenes of migrants throwing rocks and attempting to force their way into the United States.

The vast majority of the migrants waiting in Tijuana, Mexico, for a chance to seek asylum in the United States have remained peaceful. But a march by some members of the caravan devolved into a chaotic melee when hundreds of protesting migrants attempted to break through U.S. barriers and others hurled rocks at U.S. authorities, who responded by firing tear gas and pepper-ball rounds.

U.S. troops did not directly engage with migrants at the border, but remained in the rear as a back up, according to DHS officials.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told reporters last week that some of the personnel now assigned to the border would be rotated out in the coming weeks.

“Some of those troops certainly will be home [for the holidays], I would anticipate they would be,” Mattis said. “But some troops may not be or some new troops may be assigned to new missions,” he said. “This is a dynamic situation.”

Matt Zapotosky contributed to this report.-------------------After inauguration, Mexico’s new government heads to Washington for migration talks






The Trump administration is pushing to finalize an agreement with Mexico’s new government in the coming days that would make asylum seekers wait outside the United States while their claims are processed, but officials from both countries caution that key provisions of the plan, known as Remain in Mexico, have yet to be settled.

Following Saturday’s swearing-in ceremony for president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador, top members of his cabinet will travel to Washington, where they will discuss the matter Sunday and Monday with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen.

The two governments have tentatively agreed to the deal’s broad outlines , but it has yet to be formalized . Trump administration officials engaged in the talks say they are cautiously optimistic they can seal the agreement, while recognizing the López Obrador administration may need more time.

“The new Mexican government is continuing to negotiate at the same time that they’re taking office and putting their administration together, so they have a lot going on,” said one senior U.S. official involved in the talks, speaking on the condition of anonymity because negotiations remain sensitive.

[Deal with Mexico paves way for asylum overhaul at U.S. border]

Conditions in Tijuana, where most of the 8,000 Central Americans have arrived after traveling thousands of miles in caravan groups, have turned more desperate in recent days. Mexico’s incoming administration and U.S. officials say that, following Sunday’s confrontation at the border, they are worried about the possibility of more unrest, particularly if militant members of the caravan seek to test the new government’s willingness to use force to keep them away from the border fence.



Children who trekked through Mexico with the Central American caravan play at a temporary shelter in Tijuana. (Guillermo Arias/AFP/Getty Images)

Top aides to López Obrador this week publicly acknowledged that they are preparing to host thousands of Central Americans while they await a chance to seek refuge in the United States. And U.S. asylum officers are prepared to implement the Remain in Mexico plan as soon as the deal is finalized, according to internal memos obtained by The Washington Post.

Those aides to López Obrador have kept Trump administration officials off balance in the past week by alternately praising the agreement and denying they have one. They say they have 100,000 jobs available for Central Americans willing to work in factories along Mexico’s northern border as well as on infrastructure projects in the country’s impoverished southern states, describing the plan as a building block to a broader partnership with the Trump administration.

“(Remain) in Mexico is just that,” incoming interior minister Olga Sanchez Cordero said last week in an interview. “To be in Mexico because we give you work, because we want you to integrate into our population, because we speak the same language, because we want you to be here.”

The medium- and long-term goal of the López Obrador government is to foment development in Central America by pouring in investment and generating jobs so people don’t have to leave their homes , Sanchez Cordero said.

“We want the United States to accompany us,” she said.

Incoming Mexican foreign minister Marcelo Ebrard said this week his government wants a “Marshall Plan” for Central America, referring to the ambitious and costly U.S. effort to rebuild Europe after the devastation of World War II.

Asked by reporters how much the United States should commit to such a plan, Ebrard proffered $20 billion as a reasonable target.

“Mexico by itself is going to invest in our own territory during the next administration, more than $20 billion, and so any serious effort regarding our brothers in El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala should be for a similar amount,” Ebrard said.

Trump administration officials have said privately they are prepared to commit significant resources to an agreement that keeps Central American asylum seekers on Mexican soil because such a deal would save millions of dollars in detention and enforcement costs.

But $20 billion would dwarf what Washington currently spends on security and development aid for the region.

“The incoming government is right to engage under the tenet of shared responsibility with the United States and to push for a holistic strategy,” said Arturo Sarukhan, who was Mexico’s ambassador in Washington from 2007 to 2013.

“But it needs to be clear-eyed as it enters these negotiations. Enunciating the goal of billions of dollars in aid, given the current political landscape in Washington, is not only Panglossian, it could artificially tee up an unattainable benchmark, which leads to failure,” Sarukhan said, referencing the delusional optimist of Voltaire’s “Candide.”

Homeland Security officials have long sought a deal with Mexico that would obligate Central Americans who reach Mexican territory to seek asylum there. Asylum claims at the U.S. border have quadrupled since 2014, leaving the U.S. immigration court system at a breaking point, with a backlog exceeding 750,000 cases and court calendars booked years in advance.

[DHS asks Pentagon to extend troop deployment at the border]

Mexican authorities have ruled out one such arrangement, known as a “Safe Third Country” agreement, but Sanchez Cordero and other senior members of López Obrador’s team said they view Remain in Mexico as a more appealing alternative — as long as it’s a temporary one.

Eric Olson, a consultant to the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, said he thinks the incoming government is looking for a deal that will mark a clear break with the “punitive, law-enforcement-only approach.”

President Trump’s tweets that described the Remain in Mexico plan as something he was willing to impose — at the threat of closing the border — have also left the incoming government little room to maneuver.

“They want to define their own policy, not only as a reaction to or negotiation with the U.S., but independently, on their own terms,” Olson said.

Another Mexican adviser to the transition team said that “we’re already in a risky place.” “When Trump talks about cooperation, he reduces it to Mexico having to arrest migrants, or else. When [López Obrador] talks about cooperation, he wants to stop emigration with development.”

U.S. officials believe the Remain in Mexico plan is their best shot at getting migrants to stop leaving Central America in such large numbers, knowing they will not be able to easily cross the U.S. border and get released from custody while awaiting a faraway court date.

After Pompeo met with Ebrard in Houston on Nov. 15 to hammer out the deal, the tear-gas clash at the San Diego border has given new urgency to questions about how to deal with migrant caravans and those waiting for asylum.

For now, Mexican authorities have dealt with some 6,000 members of the caravan by moving them from a flooded sports complex near the U.S. border to a former concert venue about 11 miles away.

[Mexico begins moving caravan migrants to new shelter]

López Obrador takes office Saturday in a Mexico City ceremony that will be attended by leaders from several Latin American countries, including Venezuela, Cuba, Peru, as well as Vice President Pence, Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and adviser, and Nielsen.

The Remain in Mexico plan, if implemented, would upend the way U.S. authorities process asylums requests at the border. Instead of allowing applicants to live and work in the United States while they await a hearing with an immigration judge, asylum seekers would have to stay in Mexico for months or years until their cases are decided.

At the U.S. border crossing in San Ysidro, U.S. border officials are currently accepting 60 to 100 asylum seekers per day, from a list with more than 5,000 names.

DHS officials say they will process at least twice as many under the Remain in Mexico plan, because they would not longer have to find detention space for those taken into custody.

Partlow reported from Mexico City.-------------------US-China trade cease fire does little to narrow differences






FILE - In this Dec. 1, 2018, file photo, U.S. President Donald Trump, second right, and China’s President Xi Jinping, second left, attend their bilateral meeting at the G20 Summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina. A U.S.-Chinese cease fire on tariffs gives jittery companies a respite but does little to resolve a war over Beijing’s technology ambitions that threatens to chill global economic growth. (Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File/Associated Press)

BEIJING — A U.S.-Chinese cease fire on tariffs gives jittery companies and investors a respite but is no sign the two sides have changed stances in a war over Beijing’s technology ambitions that threatens to chill global economic growth.

On Monday, Asian stock markets welcomed President Donald Trump’s agreement to postpone U.S. tariff hikes on Chinese goods for 90 days while the two sides negotiate. Chinese President Xi Jinping promised in exchange to buy more American exports.

China’s main market index was up 2.7 percent, while Tokyo rose 1.0 percent.

The outcome of the weekend Xi-Trump meeting in Argentina was “as good as we could have expected,” the chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China, William Zarit, said in a statement.

There was no sign, however, of progress in their core dispute: American pressure on Beijing to roll back industry plans that Washington says are based on theft and violate Chinese market-opening obligations.

“It’s impossible for China to cancel its industry policies or major industry and technology development plans,” said economist Cui Fan of the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing.

Trump’s promise gives Xi political room to negotiate after Beijing said earlier talks were impossible while Washington “holds a knife” of tariff threats to Beijing’s throat. But both leaders still face a complicated mix at home of economic nationalists, free trade advocates and other conflicting forces.

Without progress, Trump will face renewed pressure from hardliners to resume escalating the tariff fight.

Trump imposed a tariff hike of 25 percent on $50 billion of Chinese imports in July over complaints Beijing steals or pressures companies to hand over technology. Trump hit an additional $200 billion of Chinese goods with a 10 percent tariff that had been due to rise to 25 percent on Jan. 1.

China retaliated by raising its own charges on U.S. imports.

The American complaints strike at the heart of a development strategy Chinese leaders see as a route to prosperity and global influence.

They have offered to alter details but reject pressure to discard blueprints such as “Made in China 2025,” which calls for state-led creation of Chinese champions in robotics and other fields.

Those are “central to Xi’s core agenda of making China an innovation superpower,” Michael Hirson, Jeffrey Wright and Paul Triolo of Eurasia Group said in a report. It is linked to “intense geopolitical competition” with Washington.

Negotiators face a daunting agenda and a 90-day window to produce progress.

The weekend agreement indicates “dialogue will intensify,” but China will need to “agree to very substantial measures” to reach an agreement, said Rajiv Biswas of IHS Markit in a report.

Cui put the odds of an agreement at “higher than 50 percent” but said he had no idea how long that might take.

Beijing previously agreed to narrow its trade gap with the United States by purchasing more soybeans, natural gas and other exports but scrapped that after Trump’s tariff hikes went ahead. Xi’s weekend agreement is along similar lines, pledging to buy a “not yet agreed upon, but very substantial amount of agricultural, energy, industrial” and other American exports.

Xi’s government has announced a drumbeat of changes this year that Washington and other trading might have welcomed at another time as progress. But they have been overshadowed by the tariff battle.

While Beijing retaliated for U.S. tariff hikes by imposing penalty charges on American soybeans, autos and other goods, it has cut duties on factory machinery and other imports from other countries.

The government also has promised to ease limits on foreign ownership of automakers, insurance ventures and other companies.

Business groups welcome those changes but complain over other rules limiting access to markets including finance, logistics and agricultural technology.

Companies want a “genuine response to those concerns, with measurable goals,” Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, said in an email.

Threats of additional U.S. penalties loom in the background.

Trump has said he might consider raising tariffs on all remaining Chinese imports, or about $267 billion of goods. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer complained last week China’s 40 percent tariffs on imports of U.S.-made autos are higher than Washington’s 27.5 percent rate for Chinese vehicles and said he was looking at ways to equalize U.S. duties.

Trump tweeted late Sunday that China promised to drop the 40 percent auto tariffs. There was no immediate response Monday from the Chinese Commerce Ministry about whether Beijing had made such a pledge.

China has its own demands. Beijing is unhappy with U.S. limits on exports of “dual use” technology with possible military applications. Xi’s government complains Chinese companies are treated unfairly in American security reviews of proposed corporate acquisitions, even though nearly all deals are approved unchanged.

“China hopes the United States will treat Chinese companies equally and ease restriction on foreign investment and export of high-tech products to China,” said Song Lifan, an economist at Renmin University in Beijing.

A possible measure of progress will be whether Beijing offers “meaningful concessions” on technology, said Hirson, Wright and Triolo of Eurasia Group.

Without that, hardliners in Washington “will urge Trump to resume escalation,” they said. He is too committed to confronting Beijing over technology “to easily back away from those issues.”

___

AP Researcher Henry Hou contributed.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------Ban Ki-moon urges N. Korea to take denuclearization steps






TOKYO — Former U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has urged North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to take concrete steps toward complete denuclearization and gain the trust of the international community if he wants sanctions lifted.

Ban told The Associated Press on Monday that “this is the time” to achieve North Korea’s denuclearization after nearly a quarter century of unsuccessful efforts, and that the world should not lose this opportunity.

Ban, in Tokyo for a World Bank event, said the nuclear crisis isn’t over even though North Korea has opted to engage in dialogue, and its nuclear weapons still need to be verified.

Kim sharply raised tensions with nuclear and missile tests last year, but suddenly reached out to South Korea and the United States this year with a vague nuclear disarmament pledge.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------AP PHOTOS: Indigenous Panamanians compete in ancestral games






In this Nov. 25, 2018 photo, Guna indigenous women compete in the tug-of-war during the second edition of the Panamanian indigenous games in Piriati, Panama. Indigenous people from the four most important ethnic groups in Panama participated for two days to select the athletes that will represent Panama in the upcoming World Indigenous Peoples Games. (Arnulfo Franco/Associated Press)

PIRIATI, Panama — Some brought bows and arrows to show off shooting skills. Others came to demonstrate their strength, endurance or ability to pull heavy ropes or to paddle small wooden dugout canoes.

The women wore brightly hued dresses in red, orange, green and purple, with hand-embroidered details. Men stained their arms and faces with black ink extracted from a mountainous fruit. Some wore loin cloths with intricate beaded geometric designs, and strings of yet more beads crisscrossing their chests.

For two days, more than 100 competitors from the main indigenous groups of Panama — the Guna, Embera and Ngabe-Bugle — converged for the second time to celebrate their ancestral games.

“Everyone has to show dexterity, their tradition, their dance, their behavior,” said Eduardo Lopez, a member of the Guna community and coordinator of the games.

At night, the groups intermingled to share dance and music traditions. Drums beat. Flutes vibrated.

These games held in the Embera town of Piriati, some 55 miles (90 kilometers) east of the capital, drew athletes who will represent Panama in the third edition of the World Indigenous Peoples Games, which may be held in New Zealand, Colombia or another country with a large indigenous community.

Panama attended the first world competition in Brazil in 2015 and participated in the next one in Canada in 2017.

The games in Piriati began with swimming and boating in Lake Bayano, one of the main reservoirs in Panama. Indigenous people fish and motor in the lake on any given day, transporting goods from one side to the other.

For Rigoberto Palacio, a 32-year-old Ngabe-Bugle man from a mountainous village in the Caribbean province of Bocas del Toro, the games represent a way to “rescue, value and enhance” the daily activities of his ancestors. From an early age, Palacio says, he has used bow and arrow to scare away or kill animals such as snakes in his village. He hand-carved the bow he uses in archery competitions.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------S. Korea’s Moon: Trump wants to grant Kim Jong Un’s wishes






In this Nov. 30, 2018, photo, South Korean President Moon Jae-in, left, shakes hands with U.S. President Donald Trump during a meeting on the sidelines of the Group of 20 Leaders’ Summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Moon says U.S. President Donald Trump told him he has a “very friendly view” of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and wants to grant his wishes if he denuclearizes. (Hwang Kwang-mo/Yonhap via AP) (Associated Press)

SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s president says U.S. President Donald Trump told him he has a “very friendly view” of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and wants to grant his wishes if he denuclearizes.

North Korea has sought security guarantees from the U.S. and relief from international sanctions.

President Moon Jae-in’s office quoted Moon as saying that Trump asked him to convey those messages to the North Korean leader if he visits Seoul this year as he promised. Moon spoke to reporters on Saturday aboard his presidential plane en route to New Zealand from Argentina, where he met Trump on the sidelines of a Group of 20 Nations summit.

“President Trump asked me to forward to (Kim) these messages; he has a very friendly view of Chairman Kim Jong Un and likes him. He hopes to fully carry out the remaining agreements (from their June summit in Singapore) together with him so that he will make Chairman Kim Jong Un get what he wants,” Moon said.

After deriding Kim last year as “little rocket man” and threatening his country with “fire and fury,” Trump has bestowed Kim with praise. In September, Trump called Kim “very open” and “terrific” and said he and Kim “fell in love.”

Moon said he and Trump agreed during their meeting that Kim’s trip to Seoul would play a “very positive role” in U.S.-North Korea nuclear diplomacy. Moon said it’s still unclear whether Kim will visit Seoul by the end of this year, and that it’s up to the North Korean leader.

Moon, who has facilitated a series of high-level talks between the United States and North Korea including the Trump-Kim summit, has met Kim three times this year. After their third meeting in Pyongyang, North Korea’s capital, in September, Moon said Kim agreed to make a reciprocal visit to Seoul this year. Their two previous summits were held at the countries’ shared border village of Panmunjom.

If Kim, a third-generation hereditary ruler, visits Seoul, he would be the first North Korean leader do so since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. Moon said a visit would convey Kim’s commitment to nuclear disarmament, better inter-Korean relations and world peace.

After sharply raising tensions with nuclear and missile tests last year, Kim abruptly reached out to Moon and Trump with a vague nuclear disarmament pledge. Subsequent nuclear diplomacy hasn’t made headway since the U.S.-North Korea summit in June. But both Moon and Trump say fears of war on the Korean Peninsula have eased sharply.

Trump said on Air Force One while returning to Washington from Argentina that his next meeting with Kim would likely happen in January or February. He said there were three sites under consideration, but declined to name them.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------Shares advance in Asia following Xi-Trump tariffs truce






SINGAPORE — Shares are advancing in Asia after Presidents Donald Trump and Xi Jinping met and agreed to moderate tensions over trade.

The Shanghai Composite index jumped 2.5 percent and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong surged 2.6 percent in early trading Monday.

The U.S. was set to raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods on Jan. 1. Trump agreed Saturday in a meeting with Chinese leader Xi at the G-20 summit to hold off for 90 days while the two sides try to settle their differences.

That looming deadline and Trump’s threat to impose tariffs on an additional $267 billion of goods from China, possibly including iPhones and laptops, have been rattling markets for months.

Analysts say stocks that suffered from recent turmoil may see a nice rebound.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------Bangladesh gov’t: Opposition leader Zia can’t contest polls






FILE- In this Dec. 28, 2017 file photo, Bangladesh’s former prime minister and opposition leader Khaleda Zia, center, leaves after a court appearance in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Authorities in Bangladesh have announced that opposition leader and former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia is ineligible to contest Dec. 30 national elections because she has been sentenced to prison terms in two corruption cases. (A.M. Ahad, File/Associated Press)

DHAKA, Bangladesh — Bangladesh’s government has announced that opposition leader and former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia is ineligible to contest Dec. 30 national elections because she has been sentenced to prison in two corruption cases.

Attorney General Mahbubey Alam said Sunday that anyone convicted and sentenced to two years or more in jail is not eligible according to a recent Supreme Court ruling.

Zia, 73, who has been in jail since February, is serving a 10-year sentence on one corruption conviction. In October, she was sentenced to seven years after being found guilty in another case. Her party has called the convictions politically motivated.

Zia had filed nominations for three parliamentary seats. Her Bangladesh Nationalist Party rejected Sunday’s announcement.

Ruhul Kabir Rizvi, a party leader, called the decision “ill-motivated.”

“The rejection of her nomination papers are part of the government’s blueprint to keep her away from the election,” he said.

The elections will be held under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who is seeking a third consecutive time amid opposition accusations that she is becoming increasingly authoritarian and the opposition is being handled with an iron fist.

The country’s law minister had said after her convictions that it was up to the Election Commission to decide whether Zia could contest the polls.

Bangladesh’s constitution says “a person shall be disqualified for election as, or for being, a member of parliament who has been, on conviction for a criminal offense involving moral turpitude, sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less than two years, unless a period of five years has elapsed since his release.”

The attorney general said Sunday that the provision applies to anyone, and election officials cited a Supreme Court ruling to declare Zia unqualified to run.

Zia faces more than 30 other charges, ranging from corruption to sedition, which her party has denounced as politically motivated. The government has denied the allegation.

Zia was the country’s prime minister three times — twice for full five-year terms and once for a brief period.

Bangladeshi politics are deeply divided, with rivals Hasina and Zia, both from political dynasties, alternately ruling the country since 1991, when democracy was restored.

Copyright 2018 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.-------------------Video





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------‘Walking Dead’ Fans Split On Recent Harlem Globetrotters Crossover Episode





ATLANTA—Noting that late-season gimmicks have often had dire results for past series, fans of zombie drama The Walking Dead found themselves divided this week concerning a recent crossover episode featuring legendary basketball team the Harlem Globetrotters. “It was a nice touch of whimsy when the Globetrotter’s bus broke down near the containment wall, but honestly, it also kind of seems like they’re running out of ideas,” said longtime viewer Albert Garcia, who said he enjoyed the scene in which Rick Grimes and Curly Neal foraged for supplies in the ruins of an abandoned basketball arena, but also felt the storyline lacked the emotional gravitas that has come to define the show through its first nine seasons. “I’m not really sure how I felt about the part where the Dizzy took off a zombie’s head and spun it on his finger. That said, I did chuckle when Big Easy doused Negan with a bucket of confetti. Overall, though, it seemed a little desperate. And, naturally, it was kind of a bummer when that one racist character came back to kill them all at the end.” Fan reaction to the episode seemed almost unanimous, however, in that the Globetrotters’ appearance on The Walking Dead made far more sense than than the exhibition basketball team’s central, pivotal role in the 2009 series finale of Battlestar Galactica.

Advertisement-------------------G20 Leaders Attend Saudi Crown Prince’s Informative Seminar On Eliminating Dissident Journalists





BUENOS AIRES—Saying the hour-long presentation based on His Royal Highness’ own professional experience was really enlightening, member leaders at the G20 Summit attended the Saudi Crown Prince’s informative seminar Friday on eliminating dissident journalists. “He really explained things in simple terms that any head of state could understand and modify based on his or her needs for eliminating antagonistic reporters in their own country,” said Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto, one of the many world leaders to attend the crown prince’s sold-out workshop that covered a wide range of subjects, including tips on ensuring that a kill squad works as a team, procedures for deleting and altering CCTV footage, and a list of several venue options for keeping an assassination convenient and confidential. “Prince Salman used helpful activities like having us role-play a network interview in which we contradict the media to supplant our own narrative on the disappearance of a journalist to make a serious topic fun. I can’t wait to try these easy and effective torture techniques he showed us, and I’ll definitely be applying the prince’s ‘Three Ds’ approach of dismember, destroy evidence, and deny to my next press killing.” Nieto added that by the end of the class, he was a devoted practitioner of the crown prince’s methods and announced he was completely convinced that the Saudis had nothing to do with the murder of Jamal Khashoggi.

Advertisement-------------------Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux City





ROCKLAND, ME—Noting your undergraduate minor in data systems, a qualification which he claims makes you uniquely suited for the job, a corporate recruiter happened to notice your background in computer science and thought you might be interested in working part-time at a Kohl’s department store in Sioux City, IA, retail sector sources confirmed Friday. “Hello, my name is Michael Leahy, and I wanted to touch base with you regarding an exciting retail employment opportunity in the greater northwestern Iowa area,” the email sent to your LinkedIn account read in part, adding that your strong coding skills made you an ideal fit for the 20-hour-per-week position, which also entails stocking merchandise, working the register, and one dedicated shift a week greeting customers at the door. “For bright, young college graduates such as yourself, especially given your experience with Java and C++, the Kohl’s in Lakeport County Shopping Center is the perfect place to start a career. Also, your current job in software marketing, plus the 2013 semester abroad you spent studying in Argentina, demonstrate you are a great fit for our team-based work culture!” Although the email was promptly sent straight to spam, the recruiter proceeded to call you multiple times, claiming that if you played your cards right, this could one day turn into a full-time position.

Advertisement-------------------Angela Merkel Admits She Only Attending Stupid Work Conference For Free Trip To Argentina





BUENOS AIRES—Explaining that the event was “always a complete waste of time,” German chancellor Angela Merkel admitted to reporters Friday that she was only attending this stupid work conference for the free trip to Argentina. “I was totally planning to blow off this whole dumb business trip until I found out they were going to put me up in some super swanky Buenos Aires hotel,” said Merkel, who added that she was “sick and tired of having to put up with all the same annoying assholes every year.” “The whole thing is fucking lame, so hopefully I can duck out in the early afternoon and go check out the beach or some of their museums. If I end up trapped at this goddamn conference the whole time and don’t even get to try some authentic asado while I’m here, I’ll be so pissed. At the very least, I’m going to see if I can just get my dumb coworker [German minister of finance] Olaf [Scholz] to cover for me so I can hang out at the hotel bar.” At press time, Merkel was trying to avoid being spotted by Chinese president Xi Jinping after discovering that they had both skipped the afternoon meetings to take the same walking tour of the Buenos Aires Botanical Garden.

Advertisement-------------------Gimp Tied To Pole On Curb Outside Coffee Shop While Owner Inside





CHICAGO—Concerned about the welfare of the “cold and kind of lonely-looking” submissive chained to a street sign outside of a coffee shop, sympathetic passersby discussed the ethics Friday of leaving one’s gimp tied to a pole while one buys a latte. “It’s really cold out here, especially with this wind, and the poor little painslut’s wearing rhinestone-studded leather chaps,” said passerby Lee Schroeder of the disoriented masochist whose neglectful master had emerged from the shop only once in a two-hour period to perfunctorily whip him and piss in his mouth. “Should I go over and see if he’s okay, maybe fist him a little? I considered cock-and-ball torturing him earlier, but you never know if these little guys are gonna bite. God, my heart always breaks when I see a fucktoy all by himself, barking ‘Spank me, Daddy!’ over and over while his dom is inside wearing noise-cancelling headphones.” Observers were later able to breathe a sigh of relief as the gimp’s owner came out, untied him, and ran a Wartenberg pinwheel over his nipples.-------------------Undocumented Immigrant Population In U.S. Falls To 12-Year Low





A Pew Research Center survey found that the number of undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. has reached a 12-year low of 10.7 million, continuing a decade-long decline influenced by the recession and increased security measures. What do you think?

“Then why do I feel like there are more and more immigrants attacking our country every day?” Terry Traynor • Tricycle Designer

“Hopefully this means my career as an apple picker will finally start taking off.” Roger Jensen • Bugle Player

Advertisement-------------------FDA Cracks Down On Vaping Among Young People





The FDA gave makers of popular vaping devices 60 days to prove they can keep them away from minors or face them being taken off the market, saying their use has reached an “epidemic” level. What do you think?

“If they’re trying to make vaping unattractive to kids, outlawing it should do the trick.” Ty Ellwood • Caper Retriever

“Maybe put them on a really tall shelf?” Bruce Jacobson • Systems Analyst

Advertisement-------------------Oliver Stone Thriller ‘Individual 1’ Already Written, Filmed, Nominated For 5 Golden Globes





The Onion | Entertainment

Dave Matthews Band Apologizes After Tour Bus Dumps Another 800 Pounds Of Human Shit Onto Same Boat Full Of People-------------------If I Die, I Want You To Tell My Wife I Wasn’t Really That Super Into Her





As I lie here, my vision starting to fade, I know I likely will not live to see my home again. The approach of death is terrifying, to be sure, but scarier still is leaving words unsaid to the woman I’ve spent so much of my life with. Should I not make it back to her in time, I need you to do something very important for me: If I die, you must go see my wife and tell her I wasn’t really that super into her.

Yes, I’d rather say those words to her myself. But in the event I cannot, please tell my loyal wife of 20 years, the mother of my children, that while I suppose we were okay together, at the end of the day, we were never anything all that special.

Advertisement

Promise me that you’ll make it out of here safely, and that the first thing you’ll do when you get back home is knock on the door of my house, sit down with my adoring wife Martha, and repeat to her everything I’m telling you now. Even if it’s hard, I need you to look her in the eyes and make sure she understands that even though I don’t regret our time together per se, I realize there may have been other options for me out there and people who would have made me happier.

Please, you’re my only hope. Without you, my dearest Martha will never know she was pretty much the first woman I dated after I decided it was probably time for me to settle down. I’ll never forget the first time I saw her. No sparks flew at all. We didn’t have much in common, either. But there was nothing wrong with her, she was okay-looking, and she stuck around, so I figured, what the hell. Why not?

Now, two decades later, a little wink or a kiss from that woman can still fill me with complete indifference. It’s hard to believe, but all it takes is a single glance and, just like that, she transports me to another world in which I’m suddenly very bored and extremely tired.

Advertisement

God, I remember our wedding as if it were yesterday. I stood at the altar, watched her walk down the aisle, and whispered a little prayer that this wouldn’t be one of those ceremonies that drags on and on forever. As I placed the ring on her finger, I was overwhelmed with emotion, imagining how our lives together would unfold in a predictable and tedious fashion. How right I was! Then, as we kissed, I realized I probably could have done better had I not been too old and exhausted to keep looking.

Of course, all I want is to be able to say this to Martha myself. If I could see her one more time, I would thank her for giving birth to our three kids and helping me raise them into mildly disappointing adults. I would tell her I’m sorry I won’t be there to see those kids walk down the aisle themselves, or hand them off to whatever ho-hum partners they decide to waste the rest of their lives with. I would explain how I always thought the two of us would grow old together and how I always pictured myself becoming more and more resentful of her with each passing day.

One final thing: Tell my dearest wife that when I’m gone, it’s okay for her to move on and find another. God knows I moved on years ago.

Advertisement

Now, with my last few breaths, I’ll simply say goodbye and hope she knows that, whatever else has transpired between us, in my eyes she remains a companion who, while adequate in some respects, was ultimately unremarkable. The next world beckons; I know when her time comes I’ll see her there.

So long, Martha. We’ll be reunited in Heaven. Unless, of course, something better comes along.-------------------Great Mosque Of Mecca Hosts Annual Christmas Tree Lighting





Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Pros And Cons Of Teacher Tenure





Academic tenure continues to decline in U.S. institutions of higher learning, as colleges increasingly look to reduce tenure-track positions in favor of more flexibility in spending. The Onion examines at the pros and cons of giving teachers tenure.

PRO

Would be nice to have one good job left in nation.

Least we can do to maintain facade that America cares about teachers.

Complacent, incompetent professors better prepare students for complacent, incompetent bosses.

Advertisement

Just think about what these poor fuckers have to deal with.

CON

Giving tenure could be slippery slope to fair pay.

People don’t do their best work unless they’re afraid job could be terminated at any moment.

Advertisement

Mr. Galliano is a fucking prick.

Implies that we need teachers at all.-------------------Best Revenge: This Nerd Was Bullied Throughout High School, But Today He’s An Adult Who Owns Several Funko Pop Figurines





Throughout high school, Brian Hoffman was relentlessly mocked and bullied just for liking comic books and computer games. Ten years later, it turns out that being a geek really pays off in dividends: Eat your hearts out, bullies, because today Brian is an adult who owns several Funko Pop figurines.

The best revenge is living well, and it doesn’t get any better than owning a bunch of plastic statuettes of characters from fantasy and sci-fi movies!

Advertisement

The jocks who bullied Brian would be kicking themselves if they saw all the collectible Funkos that now adorn his one-bedroom apartment. With characters ranging from Harry Potter to Ant-Man to Sulley from Monsters, Inc., his trove of beady black-eyed plastic statues prove that he’s simply got it made. In high school, it may have been cool to be handsome and good at sports, but flash forward 10 years and it’s the person who owns figurines of both Rick and Morty who’s getting the last laugh! Who’s living the good life now, bullies?

High school popularity is fleeting. Having plastic dolls of the Stranger Things kids is forever.

Brian is so successful at owning Funko Pops that he even has a few Star Wars Funko Pops on his desk at work! One glance at his prized Count Dooku statuette, and all his co-workers can tell this is one cool guy.

Advertisement

We bet Brian can’t wait until his high school reunion, because his old classmates are going to be utterly floored to learn that he owns nearly 20 Funko Pops. Move aside, meatheads: There’s a new homecoming king and he’s running out of shelf space for his toys!-------------------In High School They Called Him ‘Hog Fucker.’ Now He Fucks Hogs For The Stars.





Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Playtex Unveils New Line Of Quick-Dissolving Tampons





Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Democrats Pick Nancy Pelosi As Next House Speaker





More than a decade after she became the first female speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi is poised to again fill the role of majority leader for the Democrats. What do you think?

“It’s truly inspiring to see a woman cling to power like this.” Lucretia Vo • Baking Soda Inspector

“Fine, but if things go well, I promise you I will give credit to somebody else.” Shawn Lloyd • PR Engineer

Advertisement-------------------Argentina Tightens Security In Anticipation Of Numerous Criminals Arriving For G20





Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Video





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------Tips For Working From Home





How To Make The Most Of Black Friday Shopping-------------------Matt Lauer Spending More Time With Friends, Family After Installing Automatic Locking Devices On Doors At Home





The Onion | Entertainment

Dave Matthews Band Apologizes After Tour Bus Dumps Another 800 Pounds Of Human Shit Onto Same Boat Full Of People-------------------Study Finds Rising Sea Levels Result Of Expansive Colonization Effort By Dolphins





LOS ANGELES—In a discovery poised to overturn years of climate science research, a study released Thursday by UCLA’s Department of Oceanology revealed that rising sea levels are the result of an expansive colonization effort by the world’s dolphins. “It appears that much of the sea level rise attributed to global warming was, in fact, devised by dolphins as part of a cunning plot to encroach ever further into human territory,” said study co-leader Franklin Nusbaum, noting that the imperialistic sea mammals also used their highly evolved intelligence and muscular dorsal fins to perpetrate numerous ecological disasters across the globe, including Hurricane Katrina, the Gulf Oil Spill, and the death of the Great Barrier Reef. “What’s more alarming is that their insatiable ambitions are only accelerating with every inch of shoreline they gain. Once the tides rise to overtake our cities, it will already be too late: Humanity stands no chance against their powers of echolocation and high-pitched vocalization.” At press time, reports had confirmed numerous sightings of a flag bearing a dorsal fin mounted on one of the Marshall Islands’ eroded beaches.

Advertisement-------------------Tips For Staying Healthy While Traveling





How To Make The Most Of Black Friday Shopping-------------------How To Make The Most Of Black Friday Shopping





Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.-------------------Original Voice Of NBA Buzzer Passes Away





SCOTTSDALE, AZ—After a lifetime spent defining the sound of basketball in America, Roman Sullivan, the original voice of the NBA buzzer, passed away at the age of 83, sources confirmed Thursday. “Today, we mourn a longtime member of the NBA family. You always knew it was either the half or end of a game when you heard Mr. Sullivan’s deafening scream echo across the arena,” said commissioner Adam Silver of the NBA legend, who was employed as the live buzzer at Minneapolis Lakers games before recording the low, continuous humming in 1962 for use in arenas across the country. “Today’s generation of buzzer voices grew up imitating and wanting to be Mr. Sullivan, you can still hear his influence every time a quarter ends. Whether it was during Michael Jordan’s iconic game winner in 1993, or countless other buzzer-beaters, Roman’s voice is etched in NBA history.” Silver also apologized for the NBA relying on Sullivan for decades but only paying $150 for use of his iconic voice.

Advertisement-------------------Will The Pacers Ever Be Able To Return To The Glory Of Their 2004 Brawl With Fans?





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------Skip Bayless Rips Shannon Sharpe’s Heart From Body During Debate On Cowboys O-Line





The Onion | Sports

Health Experts Say Tackle Football Poses Little Risk For Children Whose Brains Already Don’t Work That Well-------------------Modern-Day Rudy Fulfills Dream Of Showering With Notre Dame Football Team





NOTRE DAME, IN—Welling up with emotion upon finally setting foot on the hallowed tile surface, college senior Anthony Harper fulfilled his lifelong dream Saturday after finally being allowed to shower with the Notre Dame football team. “A lot of people told me I would never make it into these showers, but I knew that if I worked hard and never quit, I have what it takes to strip down and lather up with Notre Dame football,” said Harper, who received an ovation from the team after coach Brian Kelly tossed him some conditioner and told him to “get on in there.” “Every week for the last three years, I would sit on the bench in this locker room and watch the team shower, wishing I could be in there with them. I always thought I was too small to soap up with Notre Dame, but it just goes to show that with enough grit and determination, anyone can achieve their lifelong dream to bathe with a college football team.” Harper added that finally getting to shower with Notre Dame was made even more special by having his entire family there to witness it.

Advertisement-------------------Does Thanksgiving Glorify The Historical Slaughter Of The Detroit Lions?





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------Health Experts Say Tackle Football Poses Little Risk For Children Whose Brains Already Don’t Work That Well





CHICAGO—In an announcement perceived as a major reassurance to parents of children with low cognitive abilities, subpar reasoning skills, or who are simply “not all there,” top national pediatric health experts released a report Monday which claims that full-contact football poses little risk to children whose brains already don’t work too well. “Tackle football has long been known to be a high-risk sport, particularly for children under 12, but face it—some of these poor little guys are real knuckle-draggers, so why take away their fun? I mean, what do they have to lose?” said University of Chicago childhood development expert Dr. Maureen Clifford, whose neuropathological research led her to the conclusion that the risk of chronic traumatic encephalopathy caused by repeated or severe head impacts in children is mitigated by more than 90 percent in cases where the youth presented signs of being a huge dumbass and clearly had a couple screws loose already. “Of course, CTE is the most significant danger when it comes to contact sports like football, and the ages 10 to 18 are especially crucial to healthy neurological growth. But what are the symptoms of CTE? Mood swings, difficult thinking, memory loss? If that sounds like your kid, it’s because your precious little dude is already kind of a bonehead. Blocking, tackling, and getting hit on crossing routes are the least of the reasons why they’re acting like such a goddamn idiot all the time.” The study concluded that, for many of these halfwits, football is in fact their only shot at success.

Advertisement-------------------Yankees Avoid Luxury Tax By Moving Franchise To Offshore Location





ISLAND HARBOR, ANGUILLA—In an effort to cut down on the crippling costs of their $190 million roster, the New York Yankees avoided Major League Baseball’s luxury tax this week by moving the franchise to an offshore location. “The Yankees have called New York home for 115 years, but unfortunately, moving the staff and stadium to this Caribbean island is the only way to shield ourselves from the MLB’s punishing tax system and maintain acceptable levels of profitability,” said owner Hal Steinbrenner, adding that while he knows New Yorkers will be upset about the move, the minimal tax burden and lower wages of Anguilla were necessary to succeed in the highly competitive modern baseball environment. “Yankees fans will still be able to enjoy the team they love on nationally televised games or the YES Network, and all season ticket holders will be able to make the 1,600-mile journey by plane or boat for every game. Unless, of course, New York would be willing to give us $25 million in luxury tax breaks.” At press time, Boston Red Sox ownership was responding to the news by scouting potential stadium locations in Liechtenstein.

Advertisement-------------------NBC Unveils On Screen Graphic Informing Audience They Are Watching Football





The Onion | Sports

Health Experts Say Tackle Football Poses Little Risk For Children Whose Brains Already Don’t Work That Well-------------------Should Carmelo Anthony Return To His Prime?





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?





Will The Pacers Ever Be Able To Return To The Glory Of Their 2004 Brawl With Fans?-------------------Is Cindy Gruden Worth More Than The 7th-Round Pick Jon Gruden Traded Her For?





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------Red Sox Take Out Full-Page Ad In ‘New York Times’ Reminding City They Won World Series





The Onion | Sports

Health Experts Say Tackle Football Poses Little Risk For Children Whose Brains Already Don’t Work That Well-------------------Luke Walton Inspires Lakers With Story About Zero-Point, 2-Rebound Performance In Game 2 Of 2009 Finals





The Onion | Sports

Health Experts Say Tackle Football Poses Little Risk For Children Whose Brains Already Don’t Work That Well-------------------Does Amari Cooper’s Experience Playing Under A Terrible Head Coach Make Him A Perfect Fit For The Cowboys?





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------Sprinter Feels Like An Idiot After Finding Out About Jogging





TULSA, OK—Wondering why nobody bothered to tell him about the far easier alternative this whole time, sprinter Eric Powell admitted Thursday that he feels like a total idiot after finding out about jogging. “Jesus, I can’t believe I’ve been working my ass off, pushing myself to run as fast as humanly possible when I could’ve been trotting around the track this whole time,” said Powell, who explained that he learned about the slower form of running when he saw several joggers and, assuming that they needed help learning how to sprint, approached them and asked what they were doing. “I was blown away—all these years I thought the only way to run and get in shape was to move super quickly. It didn’t even occur to me that I could go at a much more enjoyable middle pace.” At press time, Powell had given up on running entirely after he discovered walking.

Advertisement-------------------Texas Rangers Asking Taxpayers To Cover 60% Of Bribes Related To New Stadium





ARLINGTON, TX—Admitting that the billions of dollars needed to grease the wheels required a joint effort, the Texas Rangers requested Wednesday that taxpayers cover roughly 60 percent of bribes related to the construction of their new stadium. “Between contractors, vendors, and local law enforcement, there’s a lot of under-the-table costs here that we can’t take care of by ourselves,” said Rangers chairman Ray C. Davis, explaining that the team would need to spend millions upfront just to placate the Arlington city council before they could even think about lining the pockets of state legislators and construction crews. “We want to keep the team in Texas, but if the public can’t spare taxpayer money to cover the very real kickback costs, we might be forced to move to a more accommodating city. However, if voters do support the funding, we predict the new stadium will inject millions of dollars back in the local graft economy.” Davis also emphasized that the project would create hundreds of high-paying no-show construction jobs for the siblings of county officials.

Advertisement-------------------Golden State Raises 2018, 2019, 2020 Championship Banners





The Onion | Sports

Health Experts Say Tackle Football Poses Little Risk For Children Whose Brains Already Don’t Work That Well-------------------Panicked Falcons Discover Scratch In Mercedes Benz Stadium





ATLANTA, GA—Pacing and cursing as they searched in vain for a note, the entire Falcons roster reportedly panicked Friday after finding a massive scratch in Mercedes Benz Stadium. “Dammit, who did this? It’s halfway down the whole thing! Christ, this is going to cost a fortune to fix,” said a distressed Matt Ryan as he attempted to buff out the scratch with the crumpled-up end of his sleeve. “This was a brand new stadium, too. It’s barely a year old and it’s already ruined. It’s so obvious, too, everybody is going to see this big, ugly gash during the game. Man, [Coach] Dan [Quinn] is gonna flip his shit.” At press time, the Falcons had been distracted from the scratch after noticing someone had pried the Mercedes Benz symbol off the front of the stadium.

Advertisement-------------------Should LeBron James Leave ‘Space Jam 2’ For A Movie With A Better Chance Of Winning An Oscar?





Should Dunkin’ Donuts End Its Promotion With The NFL That Gives Fans One Free Medium Coffee For Every First Down?-------------------‘Sir, You Stated You Wanted To Modernize The Grinch For Today’s Audience,’ Says New CNN Entertainment Reporter Jim Acosta





LOS ANGELES—In a heated exchange during a contentious press conference, new CNN entertainment reporter Jim Acosta pressed film directors Scott Mosier and Yarrow Cheney Thursday on an earlier statement they had made concerning their desire to modernize the Grinch for today’s audience. “Sir, you’re on record stating that—sir! Sir! Let me finish—you’re on record stating that you wanted to update the franchise for 2018 despite the fact that the past installments hold up well,” said Acosta to the two filmmakers he accused of being deliberately evasive, frequently interrupting them as they tried to change the subject by discussing what it was like to work with Benedict Cumberbatch. “Let me finish. Let me finish. Answer me: Did you or did you not try to put a new spin on the classic Christmas tale? The nation needs answers.” At press time, Universal Pictures had banned Acosta from doing any press interviews for their film.

Advertisement-------------------There No Way TV Character Could Actually Afford Big ‘New York City’ Coffee Mug





ROCKTON, IL—Expressing frustration at the blatantly unrealistic detail, sources claimed Monday that there was “no way” a fictional TV character could actually afford the huge New York City coffee mug they were seen drinking from several times throughout the show. “The people who made this show clearly have no idea what New York mug prices are actually like these days. I mean, she works in the service industry—how much money do they think she makes?” said local woman Heather Schultz of the spacious and immaculate New York City mug supposedly owned by the 24-year-old character. “I get that not every detail can be 100 percent accurate, but things like this just take me out of the show completely. I mean, I have some friends in New York, and none of their mugs are even close to that big. Even if she inherited the mug from a rich relative, there’s still the cost of maintaining the mug, cleaning the mug, filling it with good coffee—it’s just not possible. Everything in New York is so expensive.” At press time, the exasperated Schultz went on to conclude that the mug “probably wasn’t even real” and had likely been constructed out of plywood.

Advertisement-------------------‘Kanye Must Be Back On His Meds,’ Says Nation Technically Having Conversation About Mental Illness





NEW YORK—Following a social media post in which the rapper appeared to distance himself from politics, Americans nationwide commented that “Kanye West must be back on his meds” in what, technically speaking, could be called a conversation about mental illness. “That guy was always a wack job, but it’s good he’s taking his pills again, at least,” said Christine Gardner, one of millions of individuals nationwide who was kind of engaging in some sort of discussion of mental health, if you only paid attention to the strict dictionary definition of that phrase and completely ignored all of the details. “I mean, Kanye is definitely off his rocker, but now that he’s following doctor’s orders again, maybe people won’t treat him like he’s such a weirdo [which you could maybe—just maybe—say is one way that Americans such as myself have of joining in a dialogue about the daily stigma and plight faced by those suffering from bipolar disorder and other mental illnesses. Although, again, this is only true in the most charitable interpretation possible].” At press time, many Americans were agreeing that they now felt free to buy West’s most recent album, Ye, in what—in a purely hypothetical sense—could be called supporting those struggling with mental illness.

Advertisement-------------------Dave Matthews Band Apologizes After Tour Bus Dumps Another 800 Pounds Of Human Shit Onto Same Boat Full Of People





CHICAGO—Expressing their sincere regret for repeating the 2004 incident, representatives for Dave Matthews Band apologized Wednesday after their tour bus dumped another 800 pounds of human shit on the same architecture boat cruise from 14 years ago. “On behalf of Dave and the rest of the crew, I’m here to stress how sorry we are for any emotional harm that we might have caused the victims by once again unloading half a ton of our band’s excrement onto their cruise boat,” said tour manager Bryan Stewart, noting that while band members knew they were playing with fire when they decided to unload their septic tank into the Chicago River, none had expected the exact same set of individuals would be traveling beneath the Kinzie Street Bridge at the exact moment the foul-smelling torrent of feces hit the water. “Now, some might argue that after being caught once in a cascading slurry of brownish-yellow fecal matter, these specific people would have been wiser to avoid Chicago architecture cruises entirely. But obviously, the blame falls squarely on us. We thought we learned a lot from this unfortunate accident, but clearly we didn’t learn enough.” At press time, band leader Dave Matthews had personally offered to provide free lifetime concert tickets to the victims if this somehow happened a third time.-------------------Your Horoscopes — Week Of November 27, 2018





Virgo | Aug. 23 to Sept. 22

It might not be today, and it might not be tomorrow, but you’ll soon come to regret staging a pie-eating contest to select a new wife.-------------------Coalition Of Concerned Parents Condemns Video Games’ False Depiction Of How Easy It Is To Smash Wooden Crates





EUGENE, OR—Citing the potential threat to the safety of their children, a coalition of concerned parents issued a statement Monday condemning dozens of popular video games spanning a range of publishers and platforms for what they claimed were grossly misleading depictions of the difficulty involved in smashing wooden crates. “If game developers don’t stop and consider their influence on children, we’re going to see a generation of kids grow to adulthood with a completely distorted notion of physics—millions of kids conditioned to believe that punching or kicking a crate will cause it to burst into splinters or, in some cases, even trigger some kind of explosion,” said the group’s spokesperson Laura Egan, blaming video games for an increasing number of broken knuckles, sprained knees, and contused foreheads each year and speculating that number will surge as more gamers enter an increasingly box-centric American workforce. “Most real-world wooden crates are sturdy enough to withstand the rigors of transcontinental shipping, and it takes a considerable amount of force and time to actually break one open. Will our children be prepared to deal with the bruises and splinters that may arise while smashing crates, especially in a future where they will be seeking weapons and healthcare items more frantically than any American generation since the 1940s? Which leads us to ask, will they expect coins to liberally float in the air after the work is done? We’re still waiting for the multi-billion-dollar video game industry to answer us.” The concerned parents did, however, commend the gaming industry for warning children that shooting red barrels or drums would result in a devastating explosion capable of killing bosses.

Advertisement-------------------Paul McCartney Saddened After Learning About Death Of Longtime Collaborator John Lennon





NEW YORK—Expressing his grief and despair over his fallen friend, musical celebrity emeritus Paul McCartney was saddened Monday to learn that his longtime collaborator and Beatles bandmate John Lennon had died. “I’m shocked and saddened to hear about the passing of a man I’ve long counted among my best mates,” said the 18-time Grammy winner, admitting that he’d expected to run into Lennon at The Beatles’ Rock & Roll Hall Of Fame induction ceremony, but had “too much pride to ask my bandmates what John was on about.” “We had lost touch for a few years there after having a bit of a falling out, and I naturally assumed that was why I hadn’t heard from him in so long. This couldn’t have happened at a worse time—I was just wondering if fans would respond if we got our old band back together. Such a shame. I suppose now we’ll never know.” At press time, the grief-stricken and almost inconsolable McCartney said the worst part would be breaking the news to fellow bandmate George Harrison.

Advertisement-------------------Your Horoscopes — Week Of November 20, 2018





Aquarius | Jan. 20 to Feb. 18

It will seem as if everyone is avoiding you all week long, which will be odd considering that the engorged leech on your neck will be removed by Tuesday.-------------------Female Director Asked If She Feels Comfortable Filming Scene While Nude





LOS ANGELES—In a concentrated effort to ensure the movie set felt like a safe, supportive place for all those involved, sources confirmed Wednesday that a female director was asked if she felt comfortable filming a scene while nude. “I just wanted to do a quick check with you to make sure you’re comfortable with this,” said producer Neil Forester, adding that the scene could be shot behind closed doors if prying eyes made her feel uncomfortable and even suggesting some shots could be completed using a stand-in director. “We’ll just need you to disrobe for a moment so you can get the shot the way it deserves to be filmed. Don’t worry, it’s going to be very tasteful—we really think this is what this scene needs.” At press time, the uneasy director had been presented with a moleskin nude unitard to put on before starting to film the scene.

Advertisement-------------------New ‘Game Of Thrones’ Trailer Reveals Final Season Will Be Cobbled Together From Old Footage





LOS ANGELES—Shedding considerable light on the acclaimed fantasy epic’s long-awaited conclusion, HBO released a new Game Of Thrones trailer Tuesday revealing that the show’s final season will be cobbled together from old footage. “We’re excited to confirm that the final season will focus on previously aired scenes that have been hastily edited together at the last second,” said series co-creator David Benioff, adding that, if fans watch closely, they may be able to catch glimpses of several beloved, long-dead characters as well as some references to plot points from earlier seasons hidden throughout the teaser. “We know what our fans want, so we’re hoping that the season eight delivers on that in a satisfying way. Without giving too much away, the finale is going to feature a lot of really exciting moments that fans have known and loved—Arya standing on a rock, old clips of dragons flying, some B-roll of a crowd of peasants, and more. Judging by the responses to those scenes in their original seasons, we’re pretty sure fans are going to love it.” At press time, Benioff went on to warn that the trailer could contain spoilers for viewers who were not yet caught up on season two.

Advertisement-------------------5 Things To Know About ‘Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes Of Grindelwald’





Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.-------------------Your Horoscopes — Week Of November 13, 2018





Scorpio | Oct. 23 to Nov. 21

Your belief that “there’s no room for second place” creates friction between you and your spouse when you are blessed with twins but disagree over which one to keep.-------------------Your Horoscopes — Week Of November 6, 2018





Scorpio | Oct. 23 to Nov. 21

You don’t regret choosing the Jermaine Stewart classic for your personal theme song, but you’re starting to think it would be nice to occasionally take your clothes off to have a good time.-------------------The Onion Looks Back At ‘Psycho’





Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.-------------------The Onion Looks Back At ‘Rosemary’s Baby’





Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.-------------------The Onion Looks Back At ‘Saw’





Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.-------------------Your Horoscopes — Week Of October 30, 2018





Leo | July 23 to Aug. 22

You will be nominated for a Nobel Prize in the poultry sciences when years of experimentation finally prove your controversial “To Get To The Other Side” theory.-------------------Woman Confident She Has The Safety Net It Takes To Achieve Dreams





LOS ANGELES—Citing her can-do spirit, belief in her own talents, and considerable trust fund, aspiring screenwriter and playwright Dasha Rothwell confirmed Monday that she was confident she had the safety net it would take to achieve her dreams. “I truly feel I have what it takes to pursue my creative and personal goals here in a big city. Even if it means pounding the pavement in my Lexus hybrid, only dining out five or six times a week, and forking out that much more for rent each month, I’ll just buckle down, grit my teeth, and ask my parents for the extra cash,” said Rothwell, 24, stressing that she’s not afraid of failure or having to start back at square one, as she would suffer no financial or material repercussions whatsoever in doing so. “Look, I know that there are huge risks involved in dropping everything to chase your dreams, but I’m more willing to go out on that ledge than most people, because I have faith in my dream and in the financial advisors who are ready to cushion my fall.” At press time, the rejection of her script by two studios had forced Rockwell to consider a return home in disgrace to New York, where she would put aside her dreams and help run her family’s multi-million-dollar investment firm.

Advertisement-------------------Family Figures Grandpa Never Talks About WWII Because Nothing Interesting Happened To Him





‘It Was Probably Boring So He Doesn’t Have Any Good Stories,’ Say Kids

ATHENS, OH—Responding to their grandfather’s longtime silence on the subject, the family of World War II veteran Thomas Withers told reporters Monday that they figured the reason he never talked about serving was probably because nothing interesting happened to him. “Grandpa never discusses being stationed in Normandy, and he always gets really quiet whenever the subject comes up, so he must have spent the whole time puttering around Europe and just kind of hanging out,” said granddaughter Elise Phippen, who attributed the sad, distant look that appeared in her maternal grandfather’s eye on the anniversary of D-Day to regrets that he didn’t have even a single cool story to share about being a G.I. “I looked up his platoon, and I know they saw a fair amount of action, but I guess Grandpa was just doing clerical work the whole time or maybe he was working as a cook or something, because he’s never so much as mentioned any of it.” Phippen went on to theorize that Withers’ habit of bolting awake in the middle of the night was likely a side effect of the sheer boredom he experienced doing nothing but sitting in a room playing cards for four years.-------------------Friends Excitedly Gather Around Man’s Phone To Watch Shaky Footage Of Concert





CHICAGO—Exclaiming and pushing past each other as they jockeyed for a clear view of the screen, friends of local man Carl Michaels excitedly gathered around his phone Monday to watch the shaky footage he had recorded of a recent Mt. Joy concert. “Whoa, the audio is so distorted that you can barely even make out what song they’re playing—this fucking rocks,” said friend Brett Osnos of the blurry seven-second video, stressing how cool it was to hear a tinny, near-unlistenable stretch of the song’s bridge that was punctuated by a drunk woman screaming in the background. “That one part is killer where the light show gets so bright that the image turns completely pixelated and blown out. And it’s so sweet how you can barely see the band on the stage because most of the picture is taken up by a bunch of heads and people holding up their phones. Seriously, you’re a fucking god for scoring this.” At press time, numerous friends were frantically offering to pay Michaels upwards of $100 for the privilege of acquiring the “completely legendary footage” for their own phones.

Advertisement-------------------Man Hates Having To Wear Condoms All Day Every Day





FORT COLLINS, CO—Decrying the contraceptive device as an uncomfortable inconvenience, local man Michael Franklin revealed Thursday that he hates having to wear condoms all day every day. “It just doesn’t feel natural, and I barely get any sensation when I’m going about my day,” said Franklin, complaining that the latex contraceptive was too tight and hurt his penis while attempting to finish various tasks at home and work. “I just don’t like to feel anything between me and the fabric of my boxers, and that latex smell is kind of gross to deal with 24/7. But I want to be safe and responsible, so I just put up with it. At least I know I’m protected when I’m walking down the street or am at the office.” At press time, an embarrassed Franklin was apologizing and asking his coworkers to wait “just a second” after his condom fell off and slid down his pant leg during a presentation.

Advertisement-------------------Disgusting, Unusable Shopping Cart Has Single Sprig Of Parsley In It





The Onion | Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Woman Toys With Idea Of Getting Sister Something Nice They Can Do Together As Gift Before Settling On Candle





PORTSMOUTH, NH—Entertaining dozens of options in her search for the perfect birthday gift, local 27-year-old Alison Levine reportedly spent Friday toying with getting her sister something nice they could do together before settling on a candle. “At first I thought I’d get her a gift certificate so we could bond at a pottery class or something, but then I saw this lavender-scented candle, and I’m pretty sure she likes candles,” said Levine, who had immediately dropped plans to buy craft supplies to make a scrapbook with her sister after spotting the $28 glass jar candle at Anthropologie. “Obviously, it would’ve been cool to get in some quality time with Mary at a spa or pedicure. On the other hand, this candle was on sale, and who can’t use a candle?” At press time, Levine was playing with the possibility of suggesting that she and her sister could take turns lighting the candle and blowing it out.

Advertisement-------------------Mom Dishing Up Her Famous Comments About Your Body This Thanksgiving





The Onion | Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Everyone At Thanksgiving Doing Chore To Get Away From Rest Of Family





PHOENIX, AZ—Unanimously insisting that the 17 separate tasks would only take a moment and be no trouble at all, each and every member of the Blake family present for Thanksgiving dinner Thursday reportedly undertook a chore in order to get some time away from the rest of their family. “Here, now, I can take the trash out. I really don’t mind, it’s no trouble, please don’t get up,” said 54-year-old family patriarch Frank Blake, volunteering for a task that would take him outside for a six- to eight-minute break from his from his wife and adult children, who had in turn spent the last five hours busying themselves with various tasks in order to avoid interacting with one another on the family-centric holiday. “After I set the cans by the curb, why don’t I just, you know, run down to the basement and grab the centerpieces. I can even get the extra folding chairs [and linger there for as long as I can so I don’t have to spend time with you guys] while I’m down there. You guys just enjoy your holiday.” At press time, the entire Blake family was concocting excuses to run to the store in separate cars to prevent any chances of having to make conversation.

Advertisement-------------------93-Year-Old Grandmother At Thanksgiving Worried This Last Time She Sees Fuck-Up Grandson Before He Dies





SANTA CRUZ, CA—Emphasizing the importance of savoring each moment with her family while she still can, 93-year-old grandmother Regina Silver expressed fears Thursday that this Thanksgiving might be the last time she would see Derek Silver, 25, her notorious fuck-up grandson, before his death. “That boy just seems to get worse and worse every time I see him,” said Silver, noting that her grandson appeared to be mentally unsteady and in poor health from years of hard partying and was still showing the effects of a July fall off the garage roof while attempting to film a viral video with his friends. “He doesn’t drive anymore since his license got taken away for his third DUI, so I don’t get to see him as much. But even though the stories are always kind of sad, I want to be sure to spend some time hearing about his life while he’s still with us. I just want to appreciate him for the failure he is while he’s still alive.” At press time, Silver was patiently struggling to follow along with her grandson’s incoherent and codeine-influenced stories of the time he got kicked out of junior college.-------------------Man Pissed After Becoming Trapped In Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade While Out Walking Giant Pikachu Balloon





NEW YORK—Unable to escape the crowded procession, local man Alex Boutros was pissed Thursday after becoming trapped in the Macy’s Day Parade while he was out walking his giant Pikachu balloon. “Goddammit, this is just my fucking luck,” said Boutros, who was stuck between the Rockettes and the “Snoopy’s Doghouse” float, adding that he was just planning on taking a quick stroll to walk his Pokémon-themed balloon and grab some coffee but ended up getting swept up in a high school marching band while attempting to cross Seventh Ave. “I tried to get out, but the crowd just started screaming and pushed me in line. Now I’m, like, 30 blocks from where I’m supposed to be, and all this commotion is really freaking out my Pikachu.” At press time, a frustrated Boutros was frantically stuffing his Pikachu balloon into a cab.

Advertisement-------------------Perverted Wall Gets Off On Making Apartment Guests Look At Exposed Brick





The Onion | Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Woman Amazed She Found Perfect Partner Just When She Was Getting Desperate Enough To Accept Anything





ELKINS PARK, PA—Saying that “the universe works in mysterious ways,” local woman Rebecca Ellis claimed Monday to be amazed at how she found the perfect partner just when she was getting desperate enough to accept anything. “Who would have thought I’d find the most perfect guy for me at almost the same instant I lowered my standards to a level I’d once have found unthinkable? I mean, what are the odds?” said Ellis, 28, marvelling at the timing involved in meeting her soulmate mere days after resolving not to spend another winter alone. “There I was, unimaginably lonely and quickly running out of options in this backward town, when suddenly Kevin barges through that door and fills the recently created Kevin-shaped void in my heart.” At press time, Ellis was overwhelmed with gratitude upon landing her dream job mere weeks after lowering her salary requirements and to giving up hope of getting decent health benefits.

Advertisement-------------------Metropolitan Museum Acquires Another Vase





NEW YORK—Heralding the 2,200-year-old fired-clay container as a priceless addition to one of the world’s largest collections of same, the Metropolitan Museum of Art held a press conference Friday to announce the acquisition of yet another vase. “We’re more than thrilled to add one more intricately designed vase from either late Greek or early Roman times. Could be Phoenician, really. We’ll have to check. At any rate, it shares many of the same basic characteristics as other vases in our possession, distinguishing itself through slight differences that you no doubt will be easily able to discern,” said museum director and CEO Daniel Weiss, noting that the ceramic piece would be placed on display in the passageway between the “Interminable and Labyrinthian Galleries of Asian Art” and “Stacks and Stacks of Musical Instruments” wings. “We look forward to our visitors spending 10 or 12 seconds blinking at this excellent example of a vase, and perhaps even reading its placard in the hope of learning something uniquely interesting about it, but most likely it will simply read ‘vase’ and list a general time period for its creation.” The Met also took the opportunity to announce the acquisition of a bunch more old coins.

Advertisement-------------------‘Becoming A Mother Has Been The Most Thrilling Experience Of My Life,’ Reports Woman Fleeing Hospital With Stolen Baby





TULSA, OK—Pausing very briefly to reflect joyfully on her new role amid the day’s flurry of activity, new parent Suzanne Knott declared “becoming a mother has been the most thrilling experience of my life” Friday while fleeing the hospital with the baby she abducted mere moments before. “The very first moment I held this tiny human in my arms, I knew my entire world had changed forever,” said Knott, clutching the sleeping newborn close to her chest as she cut through the natal ICU to avoid pursuit, knocking over carts and incubators behind her to deter the nurses and security guards attempting to intercept her. “When her big, brown eyes met mine, I knew I would do anything for her, including knocking out her attending physician, stealing his coat, sneaking into the nursery, scooping her out of her crib, and running to the parking garage. I know, I know, everyone says motherhood changes a person, but until I finally clutched her close to my chest, I didn’t realize how true it was. And now this little one’s all mine.” Knott has yet to decide on a name, but was strongly leaning towards “Autumn” after hiding overnight with her baby in a pile of leaves.

Advertisement-------------------Mother Feels A Little Validated After Daughter Who Stayed Out Late Gets Murdered





AVONDALE, OH—Confessing that her grief was somewhat moderated by seeing events play out exactly as she had warned, local mother Deborah Klein said Thursday she felt somewhat vindicated upon learning that her teenage daughter Rachel, after staying out later than parental rules allowed, had been murdered. “Sure, Rachel’s violent murder is not at all my desired outcome, but if I’m honest, it feels good to say ‘I told you so,’ even if it’s just to the bedroom she’ll never come home to again,” said Klein, adding that her daughter would often “pooh-pooh” repeated warnings that nothing good ever happens after midnight and disregarded entreaties to call in often with her location. “I would, of course, do anything in this world to get my sweet baby girl back, but it’s also nice to know I wasn’t being insane or unreasonable or mean, as some young people have been known to say, when I told her that we have curfews for a reason. Yes, this major tragedy will shatter me and I’ll never be whole again, but sometimes kids have to learn the hard way.” Klein later added that she intends to mention Rachel daily as a warning to her surviving children.

Advertisement-------------------Boyfriend’s Snack 200% Of Woman’s Daily Caloric Intake





The Onion | Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------Disgusting Coworker Barely Even Washed Ass Before Leaving Bathroom





SEATTLE—Appalled by the blatant lack of hygiene from someone they share a workspace with, employees at Avignon Public Relations were reportedly horrified Thursday that their disgusting coworker Mark Sharpe had barely bothered to wash his ass before leaving the restroom. “That’s so gross—I don’t know what he’s thinking,” said sales associate Remy O’Connor, noting that Sharpe had done little more than sprinkle some lukewarm water on his ass and barely dry off his cheeks with a paper towel before returning to his desk. “It’s so unsanitary. He didn’t use soap at all, and I also got the sense that if I hadn’t been in the bathroom at the same time as him, he wouldn’t have cleaned his ass at all.” O’Connor noted that he would be sure to use plenty of Purell on his own ass if he came in contact with Sharpe.

Advertisement-------------------Widow Still Can’t Bring Herself To Get Rid Of Husband’s Corpse





ST. LOUIS, MO—Stressing the difficulty of moving forward in a particularly trying stage of the mourning process, local widow Simone Irving told reporters Thursday that she still couldn’t bring herself to get rid of her late husband’s corpse. “I know it sounds silly, but it’s the last thing I have of him,” said Irving, explaining that despite the urgings of friends, family members, and grief counselors, she had yet to dispose of her husband’s decaying body for over a year after his passing. “Everyone keeps telling me it’s time to move on with my life, but it’s hard. I mean, Geoff’s corpse still smells just like him. Sometimes, after a hard day, I’ll still curl up in bed with it. I know it may not seem healthy, but I just can’t seem to part with it.” At press time, Irving was packing up her deceased husband’s old body in a garbage bag to store in the attic.

Advertisement-------------------Recently Divorced 40-Year-Old Struggling To Navigate College Dating Scene





COLUMBUS, OH—Noting that the contemporary romantic vibe was totally different than the one he experienced in the late Clinton era, recently divorced advertising copywriter Richard Hamlin, 40, admitted Wednesday that he was struggling to navigate the college dating scene. “It’s not easy jumping back into the acton, especially when you have all these new apps to learn,” said Hamlin, remarking that everything from the music to the entire composition of Main Street had completely changed in the decades since he was dating his ex-wife. “Sometimes, I even find myself thinking that I have nothing in common with these 19-year-olds. When I show up at the bar, nobody seems to want to talk to me. It used to come so naturally, but now, when I ask someone about their major, they become uncomfortable and sort of melt away the first chance they get. I never thought I would say this, but I’m definitely considering joining a frat.” A dejected Hamlin later reported negative results from an attempt to “up his game” by spending $7 to load the jukebox with 45 straight minutes of Spin Doctors.

Advertisement-------------------Naked Man Refusing To Let Unworthy Attire Touch His Body Until Launch Of New Onion Store Merchandise





PERRIS, CA—Saying he was unwilling to compromise his ideals by dressing in lesser-quality garb, naked man Jon Russo confirmed Wednesday that he was refusing to let unworthy attire touch his body while he awaits the launch of new Onion store merchandise. “My body is a temple and deserves to be draped in finery of a level only the Onion store can provide,” said the nude Russo, scrolling through the site’s collection of men’s T-shirts impeccably screen-printed by one of China’s most deluxe bulk T-shirt suppliers. “For my torso, only a comfort-fit sweatshirt emblazoned with the Onion logo will do. Until I receive my order, just a few standard shipping days from now, my skin will remain bare and untainted by inferior branded clothing.” At press time, a visibly sunburned Russo was attempting to rehydrate by drinking from his favorite Onion coffee mug.

Advertisement-------------------45-Year-Old Loser Moves In With Parents





The Onion | Local

Recruiter Saw Your Background In Computer Science And Thought Maybe You’d Be Interested In Working Part-Time At A Kohl’s In Sioux…-------------------How To Choose A New Hairstyle





How To Make The Most Of Black Friday Shopping-------------------Teacher Who Learns More From Her Students Than She Teaches Them Fired





CINCINNATI—Explaining that her statements indicated a failure to understand and implement the district’s goal of providing a comprehensive education to all children, Jefferson High School officials reportedly fired 10th-grade chemistry teacher Jennifer Steenman today after she was heard saying she learns more from her students than they do from her. “I just love being around the students—I honestly think I get more out of these classes than the kids do,” said Steenman, who was later summoned into a meeting with the school’s principal where she was informed that her contract would be terminated immediately for gross incompetence. “I learn something new from them each and every day. They teach me so much—far more than I could ever teach them.” The dismissal reportedly follows a series of reprimands from administrators, who recorded Steenman on numerous occasions stating that her curriculum was less about chemistry, per se, and more about learning how to learn.

Advertisement-------------------High School Student, Teacher Applying For Same Summer Waitressing Job





Noting that it would be nice to finally have a little spending cash on hand, both Pittsfield High School junior Marissa Klemp and chemistry teacher Rebecca Murphy applied for the same seasonal waitress position at a local diner, sources confirmed Thurs… Full article.

Advertisement-------------------Trump Hacks Through Thick Central American Jungle In Search Of Entirely New Ethnic Group To Demonize





TALAMANCAN MONTANE FORESTS, COSTA RICA—Venturing deep into rainforest no outsider has dared explore, President Trump slashed through the thick vines of a Central American jungle Monday in search of a previously unknown ethnic group to vilify. “Legend has it that this land is home to a lost race of people living in complete isolation, and if I can manage to find them, I will be able to stereotype them in any way I choose,” said the machete-wielding commander in chief who was wearing a tan field jacket as he led a group of loyal Republican allies through the oppressively hot and humid thicket in search of the mythic tribe. “This discovery could change everything. These people remain entirely untouched by any media coverage whatsoever, so I can easily stick them with the blame for our nation’s drug problems, violent crime, stagnant wage growth, you name it.” Upon sighting the uncontacted tribe, Trump’s reelection team reportedly took grainy black-and-white videos of them for immediate use in menacing campaign ads.

Advertisement-------------------Georgia GOP Demands Stacey Abrams Step Down As Candidate To Avoid Conflict Of Interest





ATLANTA—As votes continued to be counted to determine the outcome of the controversial Georgia governor’s race, the state’s GOP officials reportedly demanded on Friday that Stacey Abrams step down as the Democratic candidate to avoid a conflict of interest. “It’s clear that the integrity of this important election will be violated if Ms. Abrams remains in her obviously biased post as the Democratic candidate for governor,” said Ryan Mahoney, aide to the Brian Kemp campaign, adding that Kemp had resigned as Georgia’s secretary of state two days after the election in order to avoid the appearance of partisanship and that it was only fair that Abrams recuse herself from her post as well. “Ms. Abrams already displayed her appalling bias by appearing on the ballot as a Democrat in the first place, but stepping down as the candidate now would still allow the election to be decided fairly. We urge her not to indulge in blatant partisan behavior by manipulating the system so that all the votes are counted, and to do the honorable thing by giving up her candidacy.” Georgia GOP officials added that residents could avoid abetting Abrams’ compromised position by not voting for her in a runoff election.

Advertisement-------------------Mueller Annoyed By Dipshit Protestors Holding Up Traffic During Commute





‘Get A Move On, Assholes, Some Of Us Want To Get Home After A Long Day At Work,’ Special Counsel Screams At Demonstrators

WASHINGTON—Laying on his horn while stuck in bumper-to-bumper gridlock, an annoyed special counsel Robert Mueller reportedly screamed at “dipshit protestors” from his car Thursday as a MoveOn rally held up traffic during his nightly commute. “Get a move on, assholes! Some of us have actual paying jobs and want to get home to our families after a long day at the office,” shouted the frustrated former FBI director, rolling down his window and berating the thousands of protestors to “shut the fuck up already” so he could “get out of this goddamn city.” “Seriously, don’t any of you people have jobs? It’s 5 p.m. on a Thursday. And hello? What happened to using sidewalks or speaking in a reasonable tone? Jesus, this shit should be illegal.” At press time, Mueller had reportedly been arrested for beating a protestor unconscious after the demonstrator kicked a dent into the side of his car.-------------------Senate Bill To End U.S. Role In Yemen War Rejected By House Raytheon Executives





WASHINGTON—In a move greatly reducing the possibility that the measure will receive support in the lower chamber of Congress, a Senate resolution to end the U.S. role in the war in Yemen was roundly rejected Thursday by House Raytheon executives. “After a very thorough review, we, the members of the House Raytheon caucus, voted to reject the bill outright,” said Stephen Hadley (R-RTN), chair of the influential House Subcommittee on Raytheon Products & Services, adding that the 286 Raytheon elected officials who hold an insurmountable majority in the House strongly disagreed with the Senate’s effort to rein in American support of the Saudi Arabia–led war in Yemen. “The Senate’s move to withdraw U.S. troops and financial support from the Saudis is simply not in the best interest of our constituents, the majority of whom are hardworking Raytheon shareholders and Raytheon employees. We are not going to let the Senate make an ill-considered decision to destroy the carefully built relationship between the Saudis and the Raytheon people.” At press time, the House Raytheon executives had voted unanimously in favor of a new congressional resolution that would put the entire U.S. defense budget earmarked for the war in Yemen under Raytheon’s direct control.

Advertisement-------------------‘You’ve Got Them Right Where You Want Them, Mikey,’ Michael Cohen Mutters To Self After Pleading Guilty Again





The Onion | Politics

Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him-------------------2078 Nancy Pelosi Hologram Nominated For 38th Term In House As Party Leader





The Onion | Politics

‘You’ve Got Them Right Where You Want Them, Mikey,’ Michael Cohen Mutters To Self After Pleading Guilty Again-------------------Trump Boys Swallow Luggage Keys In Case They Get Locked Up In Jail And Need To Escape





WASHINGTON—After procuring a tall glass of chocolate milk to expedite the process, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. reportedly swallowed two sets of luggage keys Wednesday in case they went to jail in the near future and needed to escape. “After the keys, we need to gulp down these maps I drew so we can find our way out,” said Eric Trump, who chewed the crudely rendered map while Donald Jr. packed a suitcase with a plastic shovel, a grappling hook made from aluminum foil, yarn, and two bowls filled with Frosted Flakes and milk. “We better pack some games so that we have fun stuff to do in prison. We could also maybe use my shovel to dig under the wall in a pinch. Let’s remember to hide some Pokémon cards in our pockets so we can trade them for supplies and juice.” At press time, White House sources confirmed Eric and Donald Jr. were attempting to vomit up the keys in order to unlock their suitcase after forgetting to pack spoons for their cereal.

Advertisement-------------------Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him





WASHINGTON—Expressing self-contempt after learning that former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort likely violated the terms of his plea deal, special counsel Robert Mueller reportedly wondered Tuesday what it was about him that makes everyone lie to his face. “It seems like no one ever tells me the truth—what am I doing wrong? I mean, I’m not even that mad about all the collusion stuff; I’m just hurt that they don’t respect me enough, to be honest,” said Mueller, who wiped away a tear while admitting that “all the secrets and lies” had jeopardized his capacity to trust new people and damaged his personal relationships. “I put my faith in these guys to be straight with me, but I suppose there’s just something about me that makes people feel comfortable walking all over me. I guess I’m just a big pushover.” At press time, a despondent Mueller announced plans to step away from the investigation to take some time for personal reflection and figure out why this kept happening.

Advertisement-------------------Trump Insists Manafort, Assange Only Discussed How Bad Collusion Is





WASHINGTON—Downplaying reports that his former campaign chairman may have collaborated with the controversial Wikileaks founder in 2016, President Trump said Tuesday that Paul Manafort and Julian Assange did indeed meet on occasion to discuss how collusion was a bad thing they would “never, ever” do. “Sure, they met a few times, but the only thing they ever talked about was how much they hate collusion and anyone who participates in collusion,” the president told reporters, saying both Manafort and Assange had assured him their meetings in London’s Ecuadorean embassy had been called for the sole purpose of outlining all the different ways people can engage in collusion and all the reasons why it was illegal and immoral to do so. “I firmly believe this was nothing more than two good, honest men clarifying to each other how disgraceful it would be to coordinate their efforts to tamper with an election, because that sort of behavior is clearly wrong. They may also have spoken of how completely disgusted they would be if someone were to obtain the emails of an opponent’s political campaign and then publish them. But that’s it. The conversations stopped there.” Trump added that several other members of his campaign staff may have held meetings to iron out the details of their own firm anti-collusion stances, including his son Donald Trump Jr.

Advertisement-------------------Trump Unveils Plan To Address Migrants With New Open-Fire Policy





The Onion | Politics

Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him-------------------White House Security Officials Relieved Ivanka Trump’s Computer Just Cardboard Box With Mirror On It





The Onion | Politics

Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him-------------------Open-Ended New Bill Criminalizes Whatever Black People Up To Right Now





WASHINGTON—Saying the measure would provide a substantial boon to police departments nationwide, members of the House Republican caucus introduced a bill Tuesday containing open-ended language that would criminalize whatever it is black people are up to right now. “This is a long-overdue piece of legislation that will help defend our country against the scourge of black people being in places and doing things,” said Rep. Steve King (R-IA) of H.R. 8164, which would penalize black Americans with a minimum of five years in prison and fines of up to $750,000 for any activity they happen to be engaged in whenever law enforcement arrives. “This measure seeks to bring an end to overly permissive laws that, by allowing black people to simply hang around and do different stuff at will, places an undue burden on the police officers who want to arrest them and throw them in jail. While I believe this bill represents a good first step, we of course also need to enact legislation that outlaws anything Hispanics and Muslims might be doing at the moment.” At press time, sources confirmed House GOP leaders had called Capitol Police to report several African American representatives engaged in the suspicious activity of voting against the bill.

Advertisement-------------------Slideshow





The Week In Pictures – Week Of November 26, 2018-------------------The Onion Celebrates The 76th Year Of Diamond Joe's Wild-Ass Magic Carpet Ride





The Onion | Politics

Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him-------------------Jim Acosta Immediately Decks White House Intern After Being Let Back Into Press Pool





The Onion | Politics

Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him-------------------Embarrassed Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Can Only Afford American Flag Pin With 19 Stars





The Onion | Politics

Depressed Mueller Wonders What It Is About Him That Makes Everyone Lie To Him-------------------5 Things To Know About Matthew Whitaker





5 Things To Know About ‘Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes Of Grindelwald’